---
layout:     post

title:      "October: Wellington only"
date:       2020-11-02
author:     "Patrick Lam"
tags:       ["retrospective"]
categories: ["work"]
published:  true
image:      "/img/20201102-october/PXL_20201004_002300883.jpg"
showtoc:    true

---

<div style="margin:auto; width: 500px">
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20201102-october/tulips" id="tulips" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Tulips in Botanical Garden</figcaption>
</div>

# No trips except a move 700m down the road

For the first time since lockdown, we didn't get out of town all
month.  On Friday I am going to Auckland and then the Bay of
Islands for the week.

New Zealand is still doing well even as the number of cases in Europe
and North America have been increasing. There have been a number of
escapes from the border (including <s>one</s> two tonight as I write this, from
managed isolation staff) but so far they have been contained and the
NZ test-and-trace systems are much-improved since March. If only Ontario and Quebec
had improved their systems.

We are now approved to stay in this country until June 2021. Easy for
me (thanks VUW!), less for MP. But we did it, thanks in part to an Employment Visa
Escalation request filed with Immigration New Zealand and a bunch of
time on hold on the phone. The earliest possible in-person teaching that
I'd have to do is in September 2021. Could happen by that time, although
I don't think it's 100% certain.

I've been enjoying the larger living space. Having different rooms is a
welcome luxury! I used the dining room as a makeshift studio recently,
which was OK. The sunlight isn't quite as good but we can still maximize
it with placement of furniture.

I remain two trips behind. I also was looking through pictures and
noticed that I had almost finished Greece/Albania from 2014 but not
quite. So close... For Rakiura I got to processing the last day of the Rakiura
track, but not post-track activities. Better reduce that queue before
going on the trip.

## NZ and COVID-19

Like last month for us, everything is open in NZ except for the border. (That was not true for all of Auckland for all of October.) The
Auckland cluster was closed today after two cycles of no new community
transmission in that cluster; Auckland has been at Level 1 since early
October.  From the start of October until today, November 2, we had
two cases: a "marine engineer" cluster apparently caught by a
technician on a ship he was working on (size 4), and just today, one
case from managed isolation staff. The <a
href="https://twitter.com/covid19nz">@covid19nz</a> Twitter account is
good communications and decent for looking this information up.

The other NZ news was a (rescheduled) general election. The Labour
party got a majority with about 49% of the vote; this is unprecedented
in a mixed-member proportional body. There is a cooperation agreement with
the Green party. I hope they will make progress on the other huge issue
facing humanity, climate change.

Looks like Australia has now eliminated COVID-19 as well. I heard that the
Australian media was keen to talk about bubble arrangements with New Zealand.
This is not at all in the news in NZ, which seems just fine with the current
arrangements. (People in NZ can actually fly to Australia quarantine-free,
but coming back would be a challenge: it is plain not allowed for us, and
requires 2 weeks of managed isolation for people with NZ residency.)
I think it's like how Canada isn't in a big rush to open the border with the US.

## Weather

Still not summer. Heater's on right now to keep inside temperature above 20°C.
Last Sunday was a beautiful spring day and would have been excellent for a walk,
but I had a <a href="https://youtu.be/Pr4q0J1x7iI">Onward! talk</a> to record.
This week, highs just shy of 20.

No more power bills to share, it's included in the rent at our new place.

## Wellington
<div style="margin:auto; width: 500px">
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20201102-october/wellington" id="1" >}}
</div>

## A list of new things

* New-to-us apartment.
* New driver's license.
* I got a <a href="/post/20201015-bicycle">new bicycle</a>.
* I dropped my <a href="/post/20201029-no-phone">cellphone</a>.
* Went out a bunch of times for Wellington on a Plate.
* Recorded and edited a conference talk. Had a semi-sophisticated AV setup. Foiled by fridge hum (but the 4th take re-recording was probably better).

Got some camping gear which I had back home but not here. So it goes.

# Professional

* full week (5 days) on Onward! essay semantic versioning talk and a bit of time on camera-ready version.
* worked a bit on API width collaboration.
* organized some thoughts about climbing population surveys.
* thinking about NSERC Alliance with non-profit partner ("second option").
* some <a href="https://github.com/jzarnett/ece459">ECE 459</a> lecture prep.
* wrote 0 research code.

Last month's list of things to write up:

* Onward! essay (semantic versioning) blurb: <a href="/post/20201101-onward">✔ done</a>
* Photos (Rakiura: about 1500, Canterbury: a lot): in progress, last touched Oct 18
* Consolidated NZ restaurant list: <a href="/post/20201003-nz-restaurants/">✔ done</a>
* ICSME (test your siblings) blurb: nope
* August trip writeup: nope
* September trip writeup: nope
* Travel philosophy (been in final-drafts form since before the pandemic): nope
* Greece recommendations (mostly drafted): nope, but I found some old pics!

Current priorities are 459 notes and a couple of recommendation letters. Then maybe I can get more pictures
out before leaving on the trip.

Days with work: 27/31. I guess that's what happens when I go on no trips. There were 21 NZ workdays in October;
NZ Labour Day is October 26. And yet I feel like I didn't get that much done.

## Ongoing (my grad students)

Talked to my students on 17 days. Again, not going on a trip would do that.

## Collegiality

Reviewed TOSEM paper. Attended VUW capstone talks. Got roped into
helping organize online social events for SPLASH.

Talked to Someone Else's Student, about US grad school.
Also put up a post about <a href="/post/20201022-grad-school/">grad school for SE/CS/CE grads</a>.

## Teaching

A bit more <a href="https://www.github.com/jzarnett/ece459">ECE459</a> <a href="https://github.com/jzarnett/ece459/blob/master/RustConversion.md">Rustification</a>, which is my next priority. The infrastructure works well now:
the makefile works and the GitHub Actions now auto-build the PDFs of only changed files.

I also fixed my own <a href="/post/20201023-latex">LaTeX</a> install. That was a weird one.

# Travels

The furthest I got from Wellington was Plimmerton to pick up a new-to-me bike.

* 🚶 Walking distance: 104.4km (essentially tied with September despite no trips); no zero days.
* 🚲 Biking distance: 120.9km (less than September but no super-long days, just one trip from Plimmerton at 32km).
* 🚗 Driving distance: 17.2km
* 🚆 Train distance: 23km to Plimmerton
* 🚌 Bus distance: 9.2km

## Walks
* Tui Glen track inside <a href="https://www.visitzealandia.com">Zealandia</a>, admiring the results of MP's volunteer work. Birds seen: Toutouwai, blackbird, california quail, kaka, kakariki, hihi, bellbird, saddleback, scaup, shags, mallard, teal, tui, takahe, chaffinch.
* walked to and inside <a href="https://wrightshillfortress.org.nz/">Wright's Hill Fortress</a> for Labour Day.

<div style="margin:auto; width: 500px">
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20201102-october/wrights-hill" id="wrights-hill" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Wright's Hill Fortress</figcaption>
</div>

<a
href="https://wellington.govt.nz/recreation/enjoy-the-outdoors/walks-and-walkways/top-20-welly-walks">Top
20 Welly Walks</a> progress: same, was hoping to redeem this on Sunday, nope. So: no new walks since last month, 18 done, plus parts of Mt. Kaukau summit. Still haven't touched the Redwood Bush Loop.

Surprisingly high total for a no-trips month. And I felt like I got to judo quite often (10 times). Also did the Judo Quebec
<a href="https://judo-quebec.qc.ca/evenement/challengejudofit2020/">Challenge Judo Fit</a>.

## Rock climbing
* Got shoes back. Haven't really had a chance to use them yet. What am I doing wrong?!

## Trips
Try again next month. (Auckland / Bay of Islands should be a bit action-packed, including the train from
Wellington to Auckland.)

## Travel planning
Auckland is planned, which is good because I'm leaving in 3 days. Kepler Track is also this next month.
Didn't do any other travel planning. Should make Milford arrangements next week.

# Restaurants

We did get to a bunch of <a href="https://www.visawoap.com">Wellington on a Plate</a> places in Wellington.

* Bebemos: Pao de Queijo, Feijoiada
* Dumpling'd: what it says on the tin
* Seoul Salon: had the Wellington on a Plate burger, place was super busy.
* Egmont Street Eatery: had a pop-up Casa del Egmont October with tapas etc.
* Chan's Eatery: roast duck with noodles
* La Cloche: somehow always busy at lunchtime even weekdays.

Went to both Harbourside and Victoria St markets this month.

# Conclusion

Let's look at the goals for October: 
> ECE 459 and refactoring are my personal goals for October, as well as seeing where
> my students can get to.

Nope! 0/2.

It feels like I did a lot of work in October but I'm not quite sure
what I have to show for it.  Certainly a talk. Thought about ongoing
projects and working towards a new project (or at least a funding
opportunity). Did travel planning for Auckland.

November is going to be less productive due to trip and virtual
SPLASH.  Also let's see how the US election goes. Although we <a
href="https://twitter.com/22_Minutes/status/1323296500164759552?s=09">can't
vote</a>.

Goals: finish ECE 459 materials as well as starting ECE 750 prep. Write
NSERC Alliance grant proposal. Make progress on refactoring and API surfaces projects.