---
layout:     post

title:      "West Coast Again, May 21-25 2021: Day 1, WLG-CHC"
date:       2021-06-12
author:     "Patrick Lam"
tags:       ["nz"]
categories: ["travel"]
published:  true
image:      "/img/20210612-chc/20210521_003350135_flying_out_of_wlg.webp"
showtoc:    false
summary:    "Last year Elliott and I went to the West Coast for the Queen's Birthday weekend.  Victoria Day is a bit earlier but the Canterbury Open was basically on the Victoria Day long weekend (not a holiday in NZ!) and I figured it would be a good chance to get out to the West Coast again, though coming from Christchurch rather than Wellington, and a bit further south than last time."

---

<style>
.post-heading h1  { color: white; }
.meta { color: white; }
</style>

Last year Elliott and I went to the [West
Coast](/post/20200910-charleston/) for the [Queen's
Birthday](/post/20210515-holidays/)) weekend.  Victoria Day is a bit
earlier but the Canterbury Open was basically on the Victoria Day long
weekend (not a holiday in NZ!) and I figured it would be a
good chance to get out to the West Coast again, though coming from
Christchurch rather than Wellington, and a bit further south than last
time.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20210612-chc/hmqv" id="hmqv">}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Her Majesty Queen Victoria (statue on Cambrige Terrace in Wellington)</figcaption>
</figure>

# Friday, May 21 [(gallery)](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1338)

I may have been thinking of expanding my airports-walked-to list
when booking a Friday late morning flight to Christchurch.
As I've been doing lately, I took the #2 bus to near WLG and walked the
remaining 700m to the terminal. Arriving a full 65 minutes before the
scheduled departure time of 11:35, I made a last-minute decision to 
check luggage; the flight looked full and I thought it would be better
to take up less space.

As my bag was rolling down the belt, I remembered that my power bank
was in the checked bag, and that power banks were no longer supposed to be
in checked luggage. Oops! 

So, instead of enjoying the Koru Lounge, I asked the friendly lounge
staff to help me recover my power bank. A couple of phone calls
and 20 minutes later, I picked up my power bank from the AvSec office
(next to the luggage belts) and went back across security (with the
power bank) to finally eat something at the Koru lounge. I don't think
one can do anything luggage-related at YYZ in 20 minutes!

(This is not the first time that checking in luggage I could have carried
on was a lose; I did that flying to the Red River Gorge in Kentucky a
few years ago too, and missed out on a day of climbing while waiting
for my bag to be delivered. Do I ever learn? At least this time there
were essentially no consequences except for feeling like I had to
inhale my food, and then having an extra 20 minutes due to a flight
delay anyway.)

Fun fact: domestic flights in New Zealand only require going through
security when the aircraft capacity is greater than 70. WLG-CHC is
often operated by a A320D, which does require security.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20210612-chc/flying" id="flying">}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Reclaimed powerbank; Kia Ora Australia.</figcaption>
</figure>

The Air New Zealand magazine _Kia Ora_ has been quite silent about destinations
outside NZ until now. Australia's back with that travel bubble now.

At Christchurch airport, I picked up my bag (in which the power
bank was replaced by an AvSec-wuz-here note) and put my carry-on
essentials back into the bigger bag.

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m28!1m12!1m3!1d92566.38342824303!2d172.51353268761108!3d-43.52945911349852!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!4m13!3e2!4m5!1s0x6d31f496835f93a3%3A0xf00ef876559b180!2sChristchurch%20International%20Airport%2C%2030%20Durey%20Road%2C%20Harewood%2C%20Christchurch%208053!3m2!1d-43.487629999999996!2d172.53740259999998!4m5!1s0x6d32214146eee13f%3A0x9a4f7bcbcf92fb60!2sSherwood%20Lodge%2C%209%20Sherwood%20Lane%2C%20Cashmere%2C%20Christchurch%208022!3m2!1d-43.571444!2d172.627806!5e0!3m2!1sen!2snz!4v1623582623976!5m2!1sen!2snz" width="600" height="450" style="border:0;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy"></iframe>

I had a 13.5kg bag for a 13kg walk. Should be manageable. I noticed on
Discord that [SE Soc](https://sesoc.uwaterloo.ca) was having a
beginning-of-term social so I joined in and IRL streamed my walk.  

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20210612-chc/chc-horiz" id="chc-horiz">}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">WW2 aircraft outside Lone Star Café; Christchurch Railway Station over there; Heathcote Park.</figcaption>
</figure>

I used a Jabra 35 headphone although I've unfortunately lost the part
that goes over one's ear and keeps it from falling out, which meant
that every 10 minutes I dropped the headphone.  And the volume was not
loud. Not the best experience. Maybe other hardware is better, or
just, you know, old-school wired earbuds.

Livestreaming is pretty bandwidth and battery intensive. I had plenty
of bits but not so much battery, and ran out about an hour into my
walk. Fortunately, I had a power bank! (ha) I figured that was enough
live streaming for the day, but I continued walking while recharging
my phone (so that I could navigate).

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20210612-chc/chc-vert" id="chc-vert">}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">No more power!; totem pole opposite WW2 aircraft donated by the US; win-a-mint at the fish and chips.</figcaption>
</figure>

I got some pretty average (NZ slang for below-average) fish and chips at 4:30
on a Friday evening from a surprisingly busy shop given the quality of
the food. Well, at least the quantity was large. There was a nice park
on the Heathcote River where I could eat the food.

Well, I couldn't quite finish the fries, and gave it a second try a
bit up the hill, but still couldn't. A bit more walking took me to my
airbnb, Sherwood Lodge, a great place for a quiet pre-tournament evening.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20210612-chc/sherwood-lodge" id="sherwood-lodge">}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">View from Sherwood Lodge</figcaption>
</figure>

Overall, great day for a walk through the not-so-exciting suburban streets
of Christchurch. Not as nice as Swiss airport walks (where there's more going on), but good exercise nevertheless.
To be continued: [part 2](/post/20210620-to-west-coast/)...