---
layout:     post

title:      "August: staying in Canada longer than expected, for good reasons"
date:       2022-09-01
author:     "Patrick Lam"
tags:       ["retrospective"]
categories: ["work", "travel"]
published:  true
image:      "/img/20220901-august/PXL_20220828_052729592-PANO.webp"
showtoc:    true
summary:    "Was going to go to NZ on August 6 but finally went on August 21, after a judo grading. I hope that I've finished everything for Spring term teaching now finally, and can get back to research (and seeing more of NZ)."

---

<style>
.post-heading h1  { color: white; text-shadow: 2px 2px 2px grey; }
.meta { color: white; }
</style>

# Status

I feel like there was a huge backlog from the pandemic (which I still don't think 
is over). Everything was stuck. They're starting to resolve now. Ça commence à debloquer.

Professionally, two things accepted (a grant and a paper) and two papers rejected. 
I've started to think about how to reformulate one of the papers. I'll have to think
more about the other one once I finish marking. Meanwhile, surprise submission
happened.

In judo, I graded for fifth dan. I found myself writing a lot of words so I pulled
it out into its own post.

* [Reflections on judo grades](/post/20220826-godan)

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220901-august/grading" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Competitive stream grading, St. Jean sur Richelieu. Photo: Vincent Scotto/Judo Québec</figcaption>
</figure>

I'm now in New Zealand for the next while. The first week I was here I
was marking the last bits of the 122 exams and all 52 term papers I
had to mark. In the spirit of quantifying everything, Crowdmark tells
me that I spent 16 hours marking the exams.  It felt like the exams
took a week to finish, which may be about right for 16 actual hours of
work. I did a couple of papers on the plane, but I did not have enough
time and energy to mark them all, even with 20 hours in the
air. Fortunately I was able to sleep during some of those hours.

Let's talk about the world now. 

## The Weather

First, think local. People complained about the NZ weather being
really poor in August, and there was flooding caused by an atmospheric
river in Nelson. I noticed a bunch of slips in Wellington

MetService says that it is currently "Fine. Northerlies" at 14.2° in
Kelburn (2PM). Waterloo, ON is rainy and 21° with a Severe
Thunderstorm Warning at 10PM. The low in Waterloo is 19°. Maybe that's
a bit too hot, especially the minimum. But 14 is a bit on the chilly
side. I decided to put on long underwear to sit inside today, and I've
been wearing a tuque outside.

I was in Brisbane last Tuesday, transitting for 12 hours. The 21° 
and sunny August weather was maybe perfect. The urban design less so.
(Countries visited: +1, to 38).

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220901-august/brisbane-weather" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">ANZAC memorial in Brisbane.</figcaption>
</figure>

## COVID

Still not over, even though many people in Canada seem to believe that
it is. It's bonkers that Ontario just announced that there is no more
mandatory isolation even if COVID-positive (supposed to stay home if
symptomatic, but it's not as if there isn't asymptomatic spread with
this virus.) And it's not like people wear masks in Ontario either. WTF.
In NZ there is talk about revisiting the (7-day) isolation period;
we'll see what happens.

There is a lot more mask use in indoor spaces in New Zealand
than in Canada. I'd estimate 80% masked indoors (grocery stores,
pharmacies, transit) in Wellington and 20% in Waterloo. I'm still
doing my best to dodge (long) COVID; as I've said before, I'd be unlikely
to die, but the probability of unwanted long-term consequences is too high
for my liking.

Technology helps to some extent, and it looks like bivalent vaccines
are coming to the Northern Hemisphere soon, but there is zero noise
about them in New Zealand. My last dose (Novavax) was in July so
maybe I'll wait until my trip to Canada in November for a bivalent
booster. That'll be about 5 months.

{{<table "table table-striped table-bordered">}}
| Dose   | Date |
|------  |------|
| 1 (Pfizer) | Sep 2021 |
| 2 (Pfizer) | Nov 2021 (+2 months) |
| 3 (Moderna) | Jan 2022 (+3 months) |
| 4 (Novavax) | Jul 2022 (+6 months) |
{{</table>}}

November would be another 4 months out. We have no data on how the the
various formulations will be in practice, but there is reason to
believe that they will be more effective than the original ones.  The
real question is: how good are they vs. infection; so far, the
original vaccines remain good vs. severe consequences, but are not
great vs. infection.

The current 7-day average number of new cases in New Zealand is 2251,
which is 45/100K/day. The NZ Ministry of Health has extrapolated an 50%
underestimate rate, so the real rate is likely 90/100K/day. The
probabilities would work out much more favourably with a rate of
25/100K/day, which would be a reported number around 12/100K/day or 500/day. Maybe
we'll get there. Today's number is 65% of last week's number, so if
nothing else changes, we'd see 500/day in 3-4 weeks. Extrapolation is risky, though.

In Ontario, the health authorities are saying that there is an
elevated plateau. I have no idea what level that represents.

(Written closer to publication time): OK, based on the most recent NZ
figures and midpoints from [Prof. Tara Moriarty's
estimate](https://twitter.com/MoriartyLab/status/1565853323982422016),
we have NZ at probably a true 80/100K/day; Quebec at 210/100K/day; and
Ontario at 510/100K/day. There is 4× more COVID in Ontario
than in NZ!

## University

There was a lot of work but I was on campus 4× (including Capstone
Project in-person demos, giving the ECE 653 final exam, and providing
lunch for TAs marking the SE463 exam). August is usually pretty quiet
on-campus. January 2022 was also quiet, but for different
reasons.

Apparently my keyboard has been located. It got misplaced after
December 2019 and we found another one, but it was the mirror image
keyboard, and not quite as good. The actual keyboard was in a box somewhere.
Nature is healing!

## August travel

Locations:
* Waterloo
* Toronto
* Montreal
* St. Jean sur Richelieu
* Brisbane
* Wellington

All on one trip since leaving Waterloo. I went east to St. Jean sur
Richelieu, then west to Brisbane, then east to Wellington.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220901-august/luggage" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Another luggage photo.</figcaption>
</figure>

I did buy and eat more peaches in Ontario (Niagara!) and brought a few
to Montreal.  Then I flew to New Zealand and had a subpar orange
("very average" in NZ speak; or did I eat a lemon? Nah.). I'll be
going to the Napier market this weekend. We'll see if they have
anything good there.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220901-august/peaches" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Sobey's in Waterloo has better and cheaper peaches than downtown Toronto, <br/> but these were still OK.</figcaption>
</figure>

# Professional

I now have a bit more time to think about research once
teaching wrapped up, putting aside the week and a half of grading. The
NSERC Alliance International grant got funded (so I should send a
student to NZ for a semester) and the paper didn't get accepted. Will have
to think about where to send it next. 

But first, we are working on a
[HATRA](https://2022.splashcon.org/home/hatra-2022) submission based
on a superb course project, and probably also a submission (different
work) to [Empirical Software
Engineering](https://www.springer.com/journal/10664), and Sruthi is
wrapping up her MMath thesis.

Speaking of which, we have an
[artifact](https://zenodo.org/record/7023911) for the VISSOFT paper
now; we also did the final submission. Go Open Science!

This month, 9 days with student meetings. Well, there was also an
end-of-term picnic at (outside) my place.  I was less slammed than in June
when I had the graduation picnic, and so I managed to do some cooking
on my new eBBQ. Unfortunately, the grilled squash was less tasty than
I hoped.

I talked to my incoming master's student Mohammad, who has now made it
to Canada.  I guess the borders are open enough now. There's still
news about people having trouble with the border, but it's certainly
not universal.

I count work on 28/31 days in August, which exceeds the 22 workdays in
that month. A lot of that was teaching, despite the lack of lectures.

It's already time for another sabbatical: July to December 2023. I
filled out the application.  It's pretty quick to fill out, really. It
looks like I will still have some remaining sabbatical credit and
teaching credit once the sabbatical is over in January 2024.

## Collegiality

I did a TOSEM review. The very day I was writing that review, they
sent me another paper to review. Gee, thanks.

I also served on a PhD committee. Congratulations to Hung Viet Pham
on a successful defense!

# Travels

The walking amount was disastrously low while I was in Canada in the
first half of August, but the week in Wellington redeemed it. I had
thought of doing another Adirondacks peak on my way to Montreal, but
didn't have time for that.

* 🚶 Walking: 101km on 21 days, with 30km on 22 days in Canada and 70km on 9 days outside Canada. 
* 🚲 Biking: 101km on 10 days (back to normal with respect to pinched nerve)
* 🚗 Driving: 1042km on 8 days; on 3 occasions in KW, but also Waterloo to Montreal
* 🚌 Bus: 74.2km on 4 days (to access hiking in Wellington)
* 🚗 Taxi: 32km on 2 days (to YUL and from WLG)
* 🛩 Plane: 18100km (YUL-YVR-BNE-WLG)
* 🚇 Métro: 11.5km on 1 day
* 🚆 Train: 41km on 2 days (to BNE, and in Wellington)

I took the Johnsonville train in Wellington this month, which
completes the set of all of the MetLink Wellington train services. I
also took the train to Porirua. Porirua City is more urban than I
expected.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220901-august/transport" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Driving to Montreal; flying over BC; YVR; BNE; Brisbane trains; BNE-WLG; Wellington bus.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Getting to New Zealand

People complain about flight meltdowns this year, but I haven't really
had any terrible experiences while in transit. But, let's put in a
chronology of this ticket getting me to NZ.

* May 28: booked a (points) ticket for August 6, after the ECE 653 exam.
* July 21: cancelled the August 6 ticket and rebooked (for $) for August 22, after the judo grading.
* July 23: seat selection.
* July 26: paid $150 to change to a day earlier, August 21; I learned that the grading ended at noon, and the earlier flight looked to have better upgrade potential.
* Aug 6: Air New Zealand pushed a schedule change so that I would have 11 hours instead of 12 hours in Brisbane, and changed the flight number; had to call in to accept the change.
* Aug 11: Air New Zealand broke the return bound by rescheduling WLG-BNE so that it would arrive in BNE after BNE-YVR departed; I called in to change my return itinerary to WLG-AKL-NRT-YUL, which surprisingly only adds 30% more miles.
* Aug 21: Check-in was difficult, apparently because of the e-upgrade request. It took 30 minutes. Removing and re-adding the upgrade request seemed to work. T-storms allowed me to change from the 18:30 to the 17:00 flight for free, though that flight only left at 18:00 after all, while the 18:30 flight left at 19:00. There were no missed connections.
* Aug 23: I asked the Australian Border Force worker about re-checking luggage and she looked at me as if I was some sort of weirdo. It's just the US that makes you do that (sometimes Canada).

The actual flying was smooth. The thing about a 14 hour flight is that
you do have a lot of time where you could sleep (unlike a 4.5 hour
transcon, or a 6 hour flight to Europe). And maybe the 21km of walking in
Brisbane helped with not having jetlag.

## Future travel planning

We started making travel plans for the term. Turns out a term
really isn't that long.  I booked a ticket to Christchurch for the
NZAC Temple Basin trip. I have all the gear for everything except
alpine ice, but I don't know what activities I'll actually be doing.

It looks like:
* Queen Charlotte Track in late October
* Gillepsie in December (second try)
* Round the Mountain in November?

and maybe another few days in Christchurch in early October. Also
this weekend we're going to Napier, which is a 4 hour drive and is forecast to be sunny.

I think I'm ready for my trip to Canada in November, which includes
refereeing at the Omnium du Quebec and the Ontario Open. And I'll stop
by campus for a bit. I don't have a ticket back to NZ yet.

## Visit: Toronto, Montreal, and St.-Jean-sur-Richelieu

Argh! This was the second time driving from Waterloo to Montreal in 2022, and
indeed less than 2 months after the first time. That's one more time than I aim for, and two more times than I would like.
It just made too much sense, though,
with (1) bringing my stuff; (2) driving to St.-Jean-sur-Richelieu; and (3) leaving the
car at my parents' house.

I figured I could shorten the drive a bit by stopping in Toronto. It
doesn't feel much shorter. I stayed overnight, though, and paid a
social visit to Marco. In Kingston, I had a Harvey's hamburger for the first
time in years. I still think it's probably the best fast-food burger;
though there are more upscale fast-food options available these days.
("Legacy burger chain"?)

Managed to get out climbing for a day at Montagne du Tranchant. It was super hot.
Hard to climb even moderately hard in the heat.

From Montreal, I drove to St.-Jean-sur-Richelieu. I guess it's pretty
close to Brossard but not so close to the east end. I stayed in St.-Jean
for two nights to avoid the drive.

And, this time, I flew to New Zealand out of Montreal. I had too much
stuff to take transit to the airport (skis and boots; two suitcases,
one with gear; plus carry-on). Uber was $48 plus tip from my parents'
house, which is still somewhat cheaper than the $70 (tip included)
taxi fare a few years ago.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220901-august/st-jean" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">The old stomping grounds; the crag; St-Jean dojo; Vieux-St-Jean renos.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Another airport walk: Brisbane

Eleven hours in Brisbane. What to do? Well, there is the [Lone Pine
Koala Sanctuary](https://lonepinekoalasanctuary.com/), and the old
standby: the airport walk. I got off the plane at 6am and sorted
myself out for an hour before setting off on a walk.  My rule is that
it counts to either a non-airport-hotel or to the city centre, for
some definition of centre. Brisbane Central station definitely
counts. (Train stations count for all places that I can think of
except for Ottawa, ha, ha.)

The airport walk was not the worst but far from the
best. Interestingly, Google Maps and Organic Maps (OpenStreetMaps
source) gave radically different walking instructions. I tried a
shortcut but it ended in a fence.  There were a lot of missing
sidewalks. London Heathrow was striking for being pretty far out and
yet still fully walkable (if not appealing in the same way Geneva and
Zurich were).

At some point the itinerary took me next to a canal and I saw some
Australian pelicans and noisy miners. Later on, I saw another miner;
magpies in their natural habitat (not NZ!); and Eastern water dragons.

I walked through the Brisbane suburb of Hamilton, which seems to be 
named after a different Hamilton than the NZ city Hamilton, which is
yet again named after a different Hamilton than the Ontario city Hamilton.

The Lores Bonney Riverwalk was a nice recreational path, but it was completely
disconnected from its surroundings; it was quite hard to leave the multi-use path
except at specific points.

Then I finally got to central Brisbane, but it felt like there was no there there.
I think what it is is too many car lanes and not enough density of people and places.
The stores were right next to each other, but it still wasn't quite right, and
there weren't a lot of people out walking. I was walking in downtown Napier today, which is
like 100 times smaller, but there were tons of people out on the streets. To be fair, it
was a Saturday rather than a Tuesday. But still.
<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220901-august/brisbane" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Brisbane airport; leaving the airport on foot; Australian pelicans; tree in bloom; central Brisbane across the river; really segregated infrastructure; Prince Consort Hotel; Brisbane Central station.</figcaption>
</figure>

Another thing was that I couldn't find public toilets in Brisbane. Maybe I don't know where to
look. There were some in Brisbane Central, but they were behind the turnstiles. I did buy
a ticket from the ticket desk. This is an annoying thing too. You can't take the buses
unless you find a ticket desk (rare) or you buy a transit card. So, getting back from the Lone Pine
koala sanctuary could be: 1) pre-buying a $6 (!!) bus ticket; 2) taking a taxi/Uber; 3) walking.
I walked 5km to the nearest train station.

Lone Pine is much more a zoo than, say, Zealandia in Wellington (which
only has the one fence around it; no cages inside). There are animals
in displays.  Including lots of koalas, of course. There were also
hundreds of schoolkids on field trips. They all were issued hats as
part of their school uniform. Makes sense.

There was kangaroo feeding but most of the kangaroos were having none of it. The hundreds of schoolkids had
all fed them first.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220901-august/lone-pine" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Eastern water dragon; emu; kangaroos; koala; kookaburra.</figcaption>
</figure>

After the last 5km walk (making 21.3km in total), I took the train back to the airport
($26). At the Indooroopilly train station they said open payments with
my credit card would work, but that was not the case when I tried to tap off at Brisbane
station.

Anyway, I got to Brisbane airport a few hours early, checked in (again, I needed to talk to someone&mdash;this time
to transfer the luggage information), and waited in the Koru lounge until boarding was called. Turned out that we
left late but still arrived early. And that was the first time I'd landed in Wellington from an international flight.
Biosecurity was quicker than the first time I'd arrived in Auckland in 2020, but about the same as when I came back
from the Cook Islands in August 2021.

# While not travelling

Most of the month was not travelling. What else did I do?

## The townhouse & life maintenance

Updated house manual for Fall tenant. Changed the garage code
again. Did a not especially thorough cleaning and packing of stuff.

I registered to vote in New Zealand; municipal elections are happening
both in New Zealand and Ontario in the next few months. I organized a 
proxy vote for Waterloo as well. Now I have to figure out who to vote for.

## Stuff

On a recommendation from the Internet, I bought an electric BBQ. It seems to work fine, though I end up plugging it in through the window. The limiting factor is skills on the grill.
* [Napoleon's TravelQ™ PRO285 Portable Electric Grill](http://basthomecomfort.com/grills/electric-grills/10-gas-grills/533-travel-q-pro-285e)

Also I replaced the bulb in the Turkish lamp so that it actually
provides some lighting now. And I got some water softener salt. It's
never easy to lug 20kg of stuff even a few hundred metres. I try to
arrange to be out and about in my car when I do that. I suspect that
Wal-Mart is much cheaper than Sobey's for the salt right now.

# Sports

* Judo: 4× practice plus grading/kata clinic; missed a week in the middle while on my way to Montreal.
* Climbing: 1× inside and 1× outside at [Montagne du Tranchant](https://www.mountainproject.com/area/107335696/montagne-du-tranchant) (quite hot)

Man, what happened to my hobbies this month?! Looks like I spent a lot of time editing pictures, and my travels
managed to interfere with judo practice. I should get back to the climbing gym now that it's a non-teaching term.

# Food and Drink

## Canada

* [The Caribbean Kitchen](https://andrewcoppolino.com/restaurants/roti-at-the-caribbean-kitchen/) at the Kitchener Market: I usually get a Jamaican patty here, but I had a roti, which was good for 2 meals.
* [Mapo Korean BBQ](https://mapo-korean-bbq.business.site/): went out here in Toronto, not crowded yet after a recent move, but will surely get there.
* Harvey's burger en-route to Montreal, and then a poutine from Bellepros near my parents' place.
* [La Cloche à Fromage](http://clocheafromage.ca/): failed to get dinner (lunch only), but did get fancy cheese for my sandwich for the next day.
* [NO.900](https://no900.com/en/our-pizzerias/angus/): went here instead, had an interesting whelk&speck pizza, enjoyed being in a restaurant and watching other people (a 10-year old girl out for dinner with a relative?) and also the CO₂ meter.
* [Le Dorchester](http://www.ledorchester.com/): pulled duck burger in the parking lot terrasse.

## Brisbane

Does Brisbane have good food? I have no idea! Didn't manage to do any
dining. All I had was a ham and cheese croissant outside the Lone Pine
Koala sanctuary.

## Wellington
I've had two pies so far, one from the Kelburn bakery and one from Concorde. 
* [abrakebabra](https://www.kebabcentral.co.nz/): I don't think I've featured them here; MP's favourite iskender supplier.
* [Rātā café](https://www.visitzealandia.com/R%C4%81t%C4%81): I have definitely featured them here before, but they always make tasty food.
* [Wilson Barbecue](https://www.wilsonbarbecue.com/): Got a Wellington on a Plate burger on the last day this year. In general, those burgers are more fancy than I would normally go for. I guess once a year is OK.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220901-august/food" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Spaghetti sauce in the Instant Pot; whelk&speck pizza; Air Canada pie; Chilean hot dog.</figcaption>
</figure>

# August posts

* [Reflections on judo grades](/post/20220826-godan)

I'm also going to re-up a post that I spent some time fixing. That was an epic adventure.

* [Biking to Amqui](/post/20180406-biking-to-amqui/#link-to-image-gallery)

I was talking to Marco and we were talking about my minimalist
wallet. Maybe I'll make a compilation of physical objects I recommend.

# Reading

I got around to reading
* [Little Brother](https://craphound.com/littlebrother/download/), by Cory Doctorow. Had been on my radar for a while, but never managed to read it. Should read the sequels as well. I had even participated in the Kickstarter for [Attack Surface](https://craphound.com/category/attacksurface/).

I checked out [The Bone People](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/460635.The_Bone_People) from the Waterloo Public Library; it is a NZ classic. I failed to find time to read it before leaving. I now have [QAnon and On](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2021/jun/20/qanon-conspiracy-theories-pizzagate-infowars-storm-is-upon-us-mike-rothschild) checked out from the Wellington City Libraries and I'm sure I'll be able to read it.

Also, Wellington City Libraries went fines-free. Yay!

# Pictures

Making a lot of progress here, especially since I didn't take that
many pictures in August. I didn't finish any sets, so the to-do list isn't
shorter, but many elements of the list have fewer elements remaining.

* [To Caubvick Summit, June 2019](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1559)
* [Tongariro Northern Circuit day 2, February 2021](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1563)
* [Atiu: Anatakitaki Cave Tour, August 2021](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1556)
* [Atiu: Beaches, August 2021](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1555)
* [Atiu to Aitutaki, August 2021](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1554)
* [Leaving Yellowknife, April 2022](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1557)
* [Getting to the Îles de la Madeleine, July 2022](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1547)
* [Parc de Gros-Cap, July 2022](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1546)
* [Le Barachois, July 2022](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1549)
* [Giant Mountain, July 2022](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1552) (also, [Wellington Street](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1553))
* [Stanley Park: Roses and Trains, July 2022](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1561)
* [Stanley Park: Marshes and Beaches, July 2022](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1562)

* [Brossard, July 2022](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1544): MP family get-togethers and portraits at the brewery
* [4 bird pictures in Waterloo, June 2022](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1545)
* [Arriving in Atiu, August 2021](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1542): Yep, we were the only tourists on the island, where we were to stay for 5 days. Good birds (though not in this gallery).

I entered pictures from Northern Quebec in the NZAC Wellington photo contest. We'll see how that goes.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220901-august/selected-pictures" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Inuksuk on Caubvick; red crater on Tongariro Crossing/Circuit; tern and savannah sparrow on the Îles de la Madeleine; seagull eating starfish; Atiu swiftlet; our transport on Atiu; Atiu coastline; Stanley Park train.</figcaption>
</figure>

To do, all from 2021 (days):
* [February] Tongariro Northern Circuit (2)
* [June] Rotorua (airport walk) (3)
* [July] Hobbiton (2)
* [July] Aotea (3)
* [August] Cook Islands (4)
* [September] Sea to Sky II
* [September] Paparoa Track & the Glaciers (7)
* [September/October] Abel Tasman Coast Track (4)
* [October] Mt. Cook and Mt. Somers (3)
* [October] Red Rocks
* [November] Waikanae, eclipse
* [November] Leaving NZ

Even more pictures from 2022:
* [January] Walking around KW
* [February] Reading week trip to Montreal
* [March] Avalanche course (2)
* [April] Yellowknife (the rest of it)
* [April] Northland (6)
* [May] trips 1 and 2 to Montreal
* [July] Iles de la Madeleine
* [July] Vancouver (2)
* [July] Cape Cod
* [August] Brisbane airport walk
* [August] Colonial Knob

# Conclusion

Yes! No more teaching! Though the HATRA submission is a good thing to come out of the ECE 653 pain.
Now back to doing research, and also having time for myself.