---
layout:     post

title:      "Warm lights in the Airbnb bedroom FTW"
date:       2022-02-20
author:     "Patrick Lam"
tags:       []
categories: ["travel"]
published:  true
image:      "/img/20220220-leds/PXL_20220219_221619973.webp"
showtoc:    false
summary:    "Sometimes I'm ridiculous. Tales of swapping light bulbs."

---

<style>
.post-heading h1  { color: yellow; text-shadow: 2px 2px 2px grey; }
.meta { color: pink; }
</style>

Last time I tried to stay at my parents' place, it didn't work great:
my mom tends to get up at midnight and start cooking. I can totally pay for
my own accommodation even if I'm perhaps sometimes cheap. So I found
an airbnb two metro stations from their place, near Langelier metro.

The Airbnb is good value. It's not expensive ($50/night all in), and
it's not fancy. In these COVID times, the separate bathroom in
particular is nice, because it means that I can just hide in the suite
most of the time and put on a mask in the rare event that I need to
traverse the common spaces. I could cook there, but it's better to cook
at my parents' place.

But it turns out that I'm picky about some things (just a few), like
[colour temperature](https://www.tcpi.com/what-is-lighting-color-temperature/). I'm
not universally picky! Just about selected things.

I guess that when you get pot lights you have fine-grained control over
colour temperature. For LED light bulbs, though, usually you have two choices: "cool white"
(aka "daylight"; typically 5000K) or "soft white" (typically 2700K). 

*I hate cool white!!!* Especially in bedrooms. Argh! Hate hate
hate. It's harsh, there's too much blue, and I understand blue light is really not
good for sleep. We actually have a very orange light in the
bedroom back at home. Maybe cool white OK for bathrooms because it "looks clean",
but even then, I have doubts (you brush your teeth just before bed, right?)

Anyway, so I wanted to do something about the colour temperature situation.
I thought about showing up at my parents' house and rummaging for a 
better light bulb, but I didn't.

The airbnb is right across the street from a Walmart, grocery store, and
pharmacy. 
* I'm sure the Walmart could help, but it was closed at 7pm (huh).
* I would expect the grocery store to have light bulbs&mdash;they 
usually have a small hardware section&mdash;but I failed to find
them.
* The prarmacy did have light bulbs, but all they had in stock for LEDs was a cool white.
Wait, that doesn't get me any further ahead.

Drat! Failed! Back to the airbnb.

I looked around some more and investigated the light bulbs in detail. The one in the bedroom was the cool white CFL which I hated.
The one in the dining room area in my suite was an incandescent (hence warm). I started swapping them... but then I realized that the
light bulb in the corner of the bathroom was a warm white LED. Victory!

I put the incandescent in the bathroom, the CFL in the dining room, and the LED in the bedroom.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220220-leds/rooms" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Fixed! Warm bedroom light, cool dining room, incandescent bathroom.</figcaption>
</figure>


Ahh! So much calmer and better. Seriously!
