---
layout:     post

title:      "24 Hours in Saskatchewan"
date:       2022-03-26
author:     "Patrick Lam"
tags:       ["trip-reports"]
categories: ["travel"]
published:  true
image:      "/img/20220326-24-hrs-in-sask/07102_night_sky_with_some_aurora.webp"
showtoc:    true
summary:    "Saskatchewan is surprisingly scenic. About giant eggs and porcupines (in Alberta), another Blue Mountain, aurora borealis, and just one ditch."

---

<style>
.post-heading h1  { color: white; text-shadow: 2px 2px 2px grey; }
.meta { color: white; }
</style>

Since there's still a pandemic, it's been hard to execute plans. I
had planned to go to the Edmonton International judo
tournament to fight or referee. In fact, the tickets were super cheap:
$282 round trip in a 100%-mileage-earning fare (Flex), plus a 100%
Aeroplan status points promotion. Unfortunately, the tournament got
postponed, as so many things have this year. It was
definitely worth it to earn the points. So I figured, when else am I
going to visit Saskatchewan? It's long been on my radar that
Lloydminster is only 2.5 hours from the Edmonton airport. 

(I've been on the train as it rolled through the province&mdash;maybe
for 8 hours&mdash;and I probably even stepped off the train in
Saskatoon, but there's no pics, so obviously it didn't happen.)

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220326-24-hrs-in-sask/then-and-now" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Then and now: Grain elevator related infrastructure in the Prairies in 2011 and 2022.</figcaption>
</figure>
<!-- [//]: # "https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1197" -->

This time, I figured I'd have enough time to drive to Saskatchewan, stay overnight,
and get back to Edmonton for my return flight. I did some research to find the best
things for me to do in my brief time in Saskatchewan. Here's how that went. In the end,
I got some pretty scenic views of Saskatchewan and some good outdoor time.
Similar to the pictures I had in 2011, but better when not on a train. Trains are great, but
they really aren't as good for experiencing scenery as not being on the train. But as a way of 
not having to drive, yes please!

# Seen in Saskatchewan

* Surprisingly scenic and non-flat
* Ads for tradies (tradespeople) on the radio
* Billboards for Swift-net rural internet on the highway (not great Google-fu)
* Inland grain terminals
* Alberta radio: country & rock; Saskatchewan had Radio-Canada as well
* "Important intersection" highway signs
* Same chains in Lloydminster as in Ontario: Sobey's, Home Hardware (though with a different retail mix inside the store)
* Almost no masks in Home Hardware
* "Maverick Party", a "Western-based national party"

# Day 0: to Lloydminster

I've been told that Lloydminster, "Canada's Border City", is
especially dull on the Saskatchewan side. In any case, it seemed like
a good place to sleep on Friday night, though perhaps on the Alberta side.

To get there, I taught from 8:30-10AM (I hate 8:30 but at least I can
leave early) and then did a committee meeting call until 11:00,
leaving me enough time to drive to Pearson, park my car at the
terminal (book ahead of time!), and take a moderate amount of risk
grabbing some food at the Maple Leaf Lounge. Maybe I also took food
for the flight and waited for us to be in the air (with the
high-quality filtration running) before eating it.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220326-24-hrs-in-sask/airport-sights" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Toronto Pearson firetruck; YEG Edmonton terminal building; black-billed magpie in YEG parking structure.</figcaption>
</figure>

Looking at the route from Edmonton to Lloydminster, I noticed the
[Beaverhill Bird Observatory](http://beaverhillbirds.com/) on the way.
Seemed like a good place for a 1-hour stop just around sunset. It had
recently snowed a decent amount, so I got my first experience of
driving in powder on this trip. Which worked fine in the involuntarily
upgraded Qashqai. (Have you seen the price of gas?  Do I really want
an upgrade? No, definitely not!) I parked the car at the end of the
road and walked in the ankle-deep snow for a while.  I saw something
that looked floofy in the tree but people tell me it's a
porcupine. I've seen porcupines in the ground but never in trees.  It
was floofy! The only other bird I saw was a black-billed magpie at the
Edmonton airport.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220326-24-hrs-in-sask/beaverhill" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Beaverhill Bird Observatory: Qashqai glamour shot; floofy porcupine; wheel on a stick.</figcaption>
</figure>


The airbnb was in the Lloydminster suburbs. I guess it's the Canadian
dream to own a nice house in the suburbs and the hosts Salma and Ilkin
were friendly and had the place set up very well indeed. One of my
best airbnb experiences, really. They had this book full of stock
photography [O Canada: Discover Your
Land](https://canadasultimatestory.com/O-Canada-Discover-your-land)
which had thorough coverage of well-known and remote places in
Canada worth visiting. Ilkin pointed out that Elk Island was good for 
cross-country skiing&mdash;a good tip for Sunday.

Lloydminster is at 53°N latitude, so decent for aurora, but it was
cloudy when I went to bed.  It was clear in the morning, so maybe
something early in the morning would have worked. Aurora hunting is a decidedly nocturnal
activity.

# Day 1 part 1: Blue Mountain

I looked up the best place to get breakfast on Saturday morning, and
decided on the [Timber Café](https://hhlloyd.com/cafe/), which is
located inside the Lloydminster Home Hardware. Sure, why not. And they
have kiwi burgers too somehow. Licensed café at a Home Hardware. Who
would've thought. 

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220326-24-hrs-in-sask/lloydminster" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Sights of Lloydminster: arriving at night; the awesome airbnb; kiwi burger at Timber Café.</figcaption>
</figure>

I did not love the high number of maskless people inside, and I ate my
breakfast sandwich in the car, keeping my lunch for lunchtime.

Another two hours of driving and a time zone shift later, I got to the
[Blue Mountain Adventure Park](https://explorebluemountain.com/),
which is much more homey than [Blue Mountain: Ontario's Summer &
Winter Destination](https://www.bluemountain.ca/). Along the way there was
a freedom protest in North Battleford (and "Thanks convoy" signs) and then another 30 minutes of driving
to the Adventure Park.

I've complained
about Blue Mountain ON previously but apparently not on this blog. It's like
[Mont
Saint-Sauveur](https://www.sommets.com/fr/montagne-de-ski/sommet-saint-sauveur/)
but, like, the biggest resort in Ontario, mostly by virtue of being
wide not high.  Looking at the topo, Blue Mountain SK may have up to
100m of elevation gain in its hills, which is half as much as Blue
Mountain ON. In terms of vertical activities, there is tubing at Blue Mountain SK,
as well as many activities for kids during the "green season".

But, well, I'm not going to Saskatchewan for the vertical. I reserved
skate skis. I'd never skate skiied before. But the powder was
ungroomed and they gave me classic skis, on which I did 6km of various
loops. 

Then, after they had groomed some of the loops, I went back and tried
out the skate skis.  More aerobic and faster. Did another 6km.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220326-24-hrs-in-sask/blue-mountains" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Welcome to Blue Mountain Adventure Park; topography; groomed track.</figcaption>
</figure>

It was nice to be outside on a bluebird day. Worthy activity. Got pictures of
the outdoor cats and the dogs Duke and Mia.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220326-24-hrs-in-sask/cats-and-dogs" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Cats and dogs; also a microdog going for a walk at Elk Island.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Navigation

It was a bit hard to understand the trail system and there weren't
maps that I could take with me. Once I got on a trail it was pretty well indicated with big arrows. They said there was AllTrails, but
that's not that easy to navigate either. Anyway, I managed to get
around, though not always on the trails that I really wanted.  I was
looking for the 9km Boundary Trail but totally failed to find it.  I
did climb up a switchback which was quite a bit of elevation gain to
do on skate skis.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220326-24-hrs-in-sask/blue-mountain-map" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Navigating at Blue Mountain: prominent trail markings and trail map.</figcaption>
</figure>


# Day 1 part 2: Auroras

The second part of my day in Saskatchewan was aurora hunting. The forecast looked good;
solar flare strength was up to [Kp4](https://www.spaceweatherlive.com/en/help/the-kp-index.html) early in the evening. I'd read the SK aurora hunters
FB group and they pointed out that one should scout out the location first and certainly
not stop in the middle of the road. The forecast temperature was about -11C. 

So, I went and looked for a good place to photograph and maybe see aurora. (Cameras are sensitive
and can see aurora even if human eyes can't). I went down several secondary roads but didn't really
find anything. Beaverhill would have been really good, actually, but it was now 3 hours away, and it's not
in Saskatchewan, so I wouldn't be able to meet my self-imposed rule of staying overnight in the province.
I thought I'd try near a grain terminal. Got some sunset pictures of the terminal too.

I went and got a donair and waited a bit before heading back out after dark. Unfortunately, the grain terminal
was not optimal early in the evening because it was next to the highway and there were too many cars. So I tried
a park 15 minutes away. Unfortunately it was a village park with all sorts of lights. No good.
I drove around more secondary roads. It's hard to find a good spot, especially with fresh powder.

Remember what I said about powder and about not stopping on the road?
I learned that the road was sometimes surrounded by a ditch, even if
there were snowmobile tracks just off the road. The front right tire
was quite stuck in the ditch. I got kind of worried about being stuck
in the ditch in the middle of nowhere though.  I spent an hour trying
to get the Qashqai out of the ditch, digging with the snow brush and
using AWD mode. Digging just caused the car to sink deeper, and
pressing on the gas had no obvious effect.  Fortunately, I had ample
clothing. I'm unlikely to be underdressed in situations where it
matters.

Unlike my experience in New Zealand, the passerby car didn't stop to see what was going on.

Fortunately, there was cellphone service, and I managed to call a towtruck. Technology's great in sharing
a location with the driver. He warned me
about the potential cost, but I was, "well, what else am I going to do?" OK, the other option was to wait for the melt. Not compatible with my flight.

After all that excitement, I was waiting in the car, and finally clued in that maybe I should try to take some aurora pictures.
It's pretty challenging to take pictures in -10C weather with a tripod I'm not super familiar with. At least I knew my camera well enough.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220326-24-hrs-in-sask/auroras" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Aurora hunting and a mishap.</figcaption>
</figure>

An hour and a half later, he winched me out for a modest fee ($230). That was about 1:30AM. I drove back to the grain terminal,
where there was much less highway traffic now, and got another aurora
& stars picture there.

Well, at least I got a couple of newbie aurora pictures, and some excitement.

# Day 2 part 1: Vegreville

The staff at the Canadian Motel North Battleford had told me that the included breakfast was grab-and-go, and so I grabbed it. 
I was quite impressed with the breakfast, which was enough for lunch as well. (OK, so the 
breakfast sandwich wasn't the best, but the other sandwich was great). 

Getting out of Saskatchewan (just about 24 hours after entering), I
stopped at a gas station with a commanding view of the prairie, and
then right on to Vegreville.  Near the gas station I saw a creature running quite fast in the snow. Coyote, perhaps?
I had read that Vegreville had a huge
Ukrainian pysanka (easter egg). Good to visit in these times. The other
thing Vegreville is known for among immigrants is the place where immigration
documentation goes, I'm told. I didn't see any of that.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220326-24-hrs-in-sask/vegreville" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Giant pysanka and mementos left at its base.</figcaption>
</figure>


(Side note: I aim to respect expertise, but the credentialled experts on
Radio-Canada who were talking about the Russian invasion have been
proven to be way off with their predictions about the war; Ukrainian
troops are still managing to hold off the Russian troops, and it's
felt to me like the narrative about Russian inevitability has been
shifting in the past few days).

I also tried to visit the Ukrainian Heritage Village, but it's not
open in March. 

Anyway, the pysanka was giant, computer-designed (pre-Gehry; [B-splines](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/B-spline)!), and somehow 
has a very 1970s colour scheme. There are other things nearby which are closed
in March too, like the visitor information centre and campground. I stopped by the 
(food & gas) Co-op and asked if there was anywhere to buy pysanka. 
Not in March, at least. Though the airbnb I'm staying at in Yellowknife is owned by
an artist who makes pysanka, strangely enough.

# Day 2 part 2: Whirlwind tour of Elk Island

I was constantly updating my time estimates in my head, and convinced myself that
I would have enough time to quickly visit [Elk Island National Park](https://www.pc.gc.ca/en/pn-np/ab/elkisland).
The webpage says 250 bird species, but I definitely did not see that many. Barely any? I did see some bison, and
I jogged the Amisk Wuche trail (2.7km, 2-3 hours, ha) in 31 minutes. Another nice stroll in the woods, which is
quite popular (30 minutes from the close end of Edmonton). Didn't have skis, so didn't do that. Trail was quite packed
out. Some people were snowshoeing, but that gear was really not necessary. Staff do seem to speak French.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220326-24-hrs-in-sask/elk-island" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">More Canadian nature.</figcaption>
</figure>


I got to the airport at 15:45, which was 2 hours before my 17:45 flight, so all good. Smooth flight back to Toronto,
car battery was fine, got back home at 00:18.

# Summary

That was a lot of driving! I counted 1100km of driving, which was not cheap in an SUV with $1.50/L gas. I had done a lot of
research about the most viable Saskatchewan destinations. I could have stayed closer to Lloydminster, but that would
have been less interesting than seeing a bit of North Battleford. 

{{<table "table table-striped table-bordered">}}
|  |  |
|---|---:|
| ParkForU YYZ | $62 |
| YYZ-YEG roundtrip Flex | $262 |
| Thrifty rental car | $124 |
| airbnb Lloydminster | $61 |
| Blue Mountain Adventure Park ski rental & day pass | $33 |
| Towing bill | $230 | 
| Canadian Motel North Battleford | $95 |
| Gas (1101km, 99L) | $156 |
{{</table>}}

I didn't talk to a lot of Saskatchewans, but, well, there is a
pandemic. Normally I might make a bit more of an effort to talk to
locals. There was also the [Allen Sapp
Gallery](https://www.allensapp.com/), named after an indigenous
artist, that I'd noticed, but skiing took all the time that I might
have had for that.

Would I go again? Well, there are more things I could do there, in all seasons: taking pictures, hikes.
People fish. It might not be my first choice of destinations but I'm glad I went.






