---
layout:     post

title:      "Reflections on judo grades"
date:       2022-08-26
author:     "Patrick Lam"
tags:       ["retrospective"]
categories: ["work", "travel"]
image:      "/img/20220826-godan/PXL_20220821_123158737.webp"
showtoc:    false
summary:    "I graded for godan (5th dan) on the competitior stream recently. What does it all mean?"

---

<style>
.post-heading h1  { color: white; text-shadow: 2px 2px 2px grey; }
.meta { color: yellow; }
</style>

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220826-godan/group" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center"><a href="https://www.facebook.com/JudoQuebec/posts/5488432481244177">Group picture after Québec competitive stream grading, August 21, 2022.</a> <br/> pic: Vincent Scotto/Judo Québec.</figcaption>
</figure>

In the "better late than never" category, I graded for godan (5th dan)
in judo. I could have graded in 2019, but I didn't get to it that
year, and then 2020 and 2021 were... difficult. Typically, grading
requires a partner who is willing to put in dozens (hundreds?) of hours
working on kata with you. But in 2021 Judo Canada introduced a
competitor-stream grading which I was eligible for, if I could collect
a couple more competition wins in tournaments on the Canadian circuit.

Despite COVID's best efforts to disrupt everything, I scored a win at
2022 senior nationals. (I planned to go to the Manitoba
Open&mdash;cancelled&mdash;and the Edmonton and Pacific
Internationals&mdash;both postponed to coincide with my brief trip to
NZ in April). I thought that just one win wouldn't be enough, but then when
collecting drawsheets from past tournaments, I found a win that I
hadn't recorded (surprise!). There we go; that was my 210 points: 22 wins, 20 by
full points and 2 by half points; at Rendez-Vous Canada, the Pacific
International, Edmonton International, Ontario Open, Quebec Open, and
senior nationals.

## The grading

The competitor-stream grading is a clinic. In Quebec, it's a day and a
half. You show up and, on the first day, the clinic instructors walk
you through the katas on the curriculum. Then you do a demonstration
on the second day. 

At the clinic there were 29 candidates for shodan (1st dan black
belt), 3 for nidan (2nd dan), 1 for sandan (3rd dan), and me (5th
dan). This is not that unusual in terms of the grade distribution;
the Quebec annual promotion counts look like that.

I was absolutely privileged to have Daniel de
Angelis, 7th dan and Director on the IJF Kata commission, and [Jacques
Côté](https://www.lareleve.qc.ca/2018/02/25/une-ceinture-blanche-et-rouge-pour-jacques-cote/), 6th dan and president of the Quebec Comité provincial des grades et
katas, to show me the [ju-no-kata](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bYIyhBD2QRg) and [Kodokan goshin-jutsu](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o8MlGidQY-4), and I'm
extremely grateful for their endless patience. These katas are quite different from what we normally do in judo; ju-no-kata is an abstract view of judo and contains no throws, while goshin-jutsu is a self-defense kata vs punches, kicks, and armed opponents. 
It's a lot to take in
at once. Jacques also mentioned that they'd just been reviewing it for
10 weeks before, so maybe feeling pretty lost wasn't just me.

Anyway, the shodan candidates demonstrated a set of the [nage-no-kata](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m3XzJFuWwss)
(throwing techniques) from the first three sets; the nidan candidates
demonstrated a set from the last two sets; the sandan candidate
demonstrated a set from the [katame-no-kata](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Js9mmSvojbo) (groundwork techniques);
and I presented a technical demonstration of my choice (I talked about
analogies between standing technique and groundwork). The competitors
have good throws, even if the formal elements of the kata are a bit
rough.

## Implications

The thing about shodan is that you get a fancy new (black) belt. You
don't get a new belt again until 6th dan, where you get a red and
white belt. (Under the current curriculum, I should be on track to be
eligible in 8 years). In some sense, higher dan grades are extrinsic
motivation; but, like being promoted to Professor at the University of
Waterloo, it doesn't show, and there is no other benefit than just
having it.

OK, so what does it all mean? Well, I am middle-aged (even though
I don't look it), and 5th dan is a middle grade. Grades depend on context,
and in some ways we&mdash;outside of Japan&mdash;make more of them
than we should. It's pretty standard for kids in Japan to have
1st dan by the end of high school and 3rd dan by the end of undergrad.
On the other end, 6th dan with the red and white belt, is a kodansha,
or high grade. Fifth dan is the last grade before that. It's more than
respectable but not Extremely Distinguished. 

They say that 1st dan is when you really start learning judo. Well,
that was in 1996 for me, so I've been learning judo for 26 years
now. One would expect to have a breadth of experience: most things
should not be a surprise, though there's always more to learn and ways
to improve. By this stage, one should very much have one's own
personal judo (hence technical demonstrations at gradings), and
be able to share it with others.

## Next up

Having achieved the 5th dan as a member of my home club, Torii,
I feel like my job there is done, and I'll be switching to Judo 
Ontario so that I can referee more national tournaments.
(There are too many high-level Quebec referees and not enough spots
at nationals).

It struck me that, for the first time since the 1990s, I no
longer have to collect grading points. I have spreadsheets with all of
my judo activities (tournaments, refereeing, clinics) for the past 10
years. I don't have to do that anymore, and competition wins no longer
contribute to a future grading. I just need to track career achievements.
Probably a good idea to record refereeing data still for referee gradings
(which is a whole different thing.)

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20220826-godan/plam" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">me, same old belt, different grade.</figcaption>
</figure>
