---
layout:     post

title:      "April: finally done with Winter term"
date:       2023-05-08
author:     "Patrick Lam"
tags:       ["retrospective"]
categories: ["work", "travel"]
published:  false
image:      "/img/20230508-april/PXL_20230420_160602208.webp"
showtoc:    true
summary:    "Whew!"

---

<style>
.post-heading h1  { color: #44ee44; text-shadow: 2px 2px 2px grey; }
.meta { color: #44ee44; }
</style>

Only one week of lectures for April, and yet still lots of
teaching-related work (exams, computing grades/admin). MP came for two
weeks, and I went to Western Newfoundland for Easter.  I gave
presentations about refereeing judo, climbing access, and of course
for work (teaching and a FAUW committee report): talking about
everything! Just at the end of April I started thinking about my West
Coast talk. My student Moh completed his MASc requirements.

ECE 453 is now wrapped up and seems to have gone well. There really
was a lot of end-of-course admin. ECE 459 isn't quite done yet but I
don't have a lot of obligations there.

The Dean of Engineering, Mary Wells, is working to build community
and to provide other services. The Faculty hired a professional
photographer to come in and take headshots. Somehow this picture was better
than the one last time. I asked the guy about taking portraits and he was
like "yeah, it's a whole different thing, take a course."

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20230508-april/headshot" >}}
</figure>

# COVID

Let's hope I didn't catch it in Brampton and don't catch it on the West
Coast Tour. I do notice that people seem to catch it a lot when
travelling. Probably a combination of lack of sleep, disruptions to
routine, and more socializing (including restaurants).

* [Status update on intranasal vaccines](https://absolutelymaybe.plos.org/2023/04/21/progress-on-intranasal-oral-covid-vaccines-plus-a-us-government-funding-boost/): no sign that intranasal is going to be a sterilizing vaccine at this point.
* [YLE on intranasal vaccines](https://yourlocalepidemiologist.substack.com/p/hype-or-hope-nasal-covid-19-vaccines): it's hard!
* [US funding committment: $5B](https://www.reuters.com/business/healthcare-pharmaceuticals/us-spending-5-billion-speed-up-development-new-covid-vaccines-2023-04-10/): definitely needed.

No wave right now?

# Professional

```
Hot Takes on Machine Learning for Program Analysis
Patrick Lam, University of Waterloo

Unless you have been living under a rock, you have noticed the general
popularity of AI/Machine Learning over the last few years.  These
techniques have also made their way to program analysis research.
Even though I see my research as focussing on classical static
analysis techniques, it turns out that I've applied Machine Learning
techniques in my own work as early as 2008. This year, my students and
I have done work on Rust bug classification; code representations for
method name/return type prediction in WebAssembly; and formally
verifying Copilot-generated code. I'll survey less-recent and
more-recent applications of machine learning in program analysis,
present overviews of my work, and tell you all about my opinions about
what machine learning is good for in the domain of static analysis.

Bio: Patrick Lam is going on a West Coast (North America) tour this
May and visiting friends and colleagues, both in the research
community and otherwise. He is an Associate Professor at the
University of Waterloo and is interested in software engineering
applications of static analysis techniques. He is also planning to
get out into the North American mountains before a visit to the
Victoria University of Wellington (New Zealand) on his upcoming
sabbatical. Ask him about New Zealand!
```

Worked on 23 days, with nominally 20 work days in April. The only research
I really did was thinking about my talk at the very end of the month.
May will be all research, though. There is going to be the talk, the EMSE revisions, talking
to Amazon, and figuring out what Mohammad is going to do.

## Grad students

Research students were also having a tough time with end of term.
But I talked to my students on 6 days. The MASc seminar meant a lot of
preparation beforehand. I also had an end-of-classes get-together at the beginning
of the month and a lunch celebrating Moh's MASc at the end of the month.

## Research

All I've got is that abstract above. I wonder if I can make it into an Onward! Essay. We'll see
how people respond to the talk.

## Teaching

As I wrote above, there was a lot of ECE 453 work, between setting the final exam, answering
questions, and assigning final marks. I also set two questions for ECE 459, which was quite
manageable. Good thing that we have multiple instructors there.

There was one Walk as a Service with a CS student who mailed me out of the blue this month.

## Collegiality

I read two MASc theses, attended the SE faculty retreat,
chaired a PhD comprehensive exam for a Systems Design student,
participated in two job candidate visits, attended the Engineering
Faculty Commencement lunch, and was the last man standing on the FAUW
Nominations and Elections Committee.

I wrote notes to incoming undergraduate Software Engineering students.
I've done this for a while, but this year, three students wrote back to me,
which is unusual. Go figure.

I continued with SIGPLAN-M mentoring, which is rewarding (and also helps me, too,
in getting invited as a keynote speaker at PNW PLSE, and in having the Amazon Research
Awards pointed out to me.)

# Trips

I was in town for the weekend of April 1. Then I went to Western
Newfoundland for Easter weekend; Ottawa for half the weekend after
that (referee clinic); Montreal the weekend after that; and Brampton
in the last weekend of April. Since teaching had ended, I was also in
Montreal for a couple of weekdays, though I had to go back to Waterloo
to give the ECE 453 exam.

Day trip to Toronto by bicycle/GO/TTC for a 2pm appointment worked really
well. Much better than driving.

## Western Newfoundland, April 6-9

I've wanted to ski at [Marble Mountain](https://skimarble.com) for a
long time.  Easter weekend was coming up, with no lectures from
Thursday through Sunday. I noticed that Marble tried to stay open
until at least Easter, and that Aeroplan redemptions to YDF were
reasonable.

Marble Mountain has 225 acres and 1759' of vertical to
[Tremblant](https://tremblant.ca)'s 630 acres and 2116' of vertical,
but Marble also has, I dunno, less than one-tenth as many
skiers. Maybe it's not so viable as a business, but it was great to be
there.

Western Newfoundland also contains [Gros Morne National
Park](https://parks.canada.ca/pn-np/nl/grosmorne), though e.g. Western
Brook Pond is really hard to access off-season, and the Tablelands are under
snow. Still, I'd be able to do some hiking.

* [Trip Report: Western Newfoundland](/post/20230507-western-newfoundland)

## Ottawa/Bromont/Brossard, April 16

Didn't see Ottawa itself: left Waterloo later in the day after a packed
social calendar. They put us up in a Hilton Garden Inn near the
airport, which was nice, and convenient to the clinic location.

Proceeded to Bromont for a few days. Was nice to see MP's mom and
stepdad. And there is a [small bouldering
gym](/post/20230419-backbone-bouldering-gym) 15 minutes' walk away
(along the highway, on a rainy day; we drove). Didn't really do anything else
in Bromont except for work.

Then I took the train on a quick-turn round-trip to Waterloo to give my exam.
That worked pretty well. I left on Wednesday and took the train to Montreal.
Gave the exam on Thursday and crashed at Derek's sister's place so that I could take
the 8am train on Friday morning. That train was a bit late, but fine. I took the bus to Brossard and walked
to MP's dad's place, which isn't really that far. The walk isn't that interesting.

We drove to a couple of walks (Montreal's great, but it would be nice
if we could get to the walks otherwise). I rented a Sony 100-400 GM lens from
Gosselin because mine was broken. $40 for the weekend is hard to beat.

Saturday was nice and had good photography conditions; we got pictures
of chickadees and white-chested nuthatches. Then it started raining
and Sunday was super muddy. The light was terrible, too. It was cloudy
and bright, and the birds were in the trees. But we saw a Great Horned
Owl.

I scheduled my return to Waterloo on Monday when MP had her flight
back to New Zealand, and took the train from Dorval. Actually I had
fumbled and bought TRTO-MTRL instead of MTRL-TRTO. But they let me fix
it for the fare difference, fortunately. I got back to Waterloo in
time to get to the climbing gym, and had a good session.

## Brampton, April 28-30

I had a lot of travel fiascoes on Friday! I had the wrong easyGO card
to get to Kitchener Station. Then there was a mix-up with the car
reservation.  After some analysis paralysis, I had finally decided to
rent the car on Friday at Pearson and return it on Monday, so that I
could fly out immediately.  But I'd initially made a booking with
Enterprise out from Waterloo and back to YKF. That would have been
suboptimal and more expensive. I modified my reservation. Then the
Waterloo location asked me if I needed the car. I said, no, I was
getting it from YYZ.  I even called YYZ to check and told Waterloo
that I didn't need the car.  But then they cancelled the reservation
and when I showed up at YYZ they didn't see it.  I called again and
got YYZ to honour the rate (well, plus $8, because they didn't apply
the Enterprise Plus discount). Enterprise did not take walk-ups at YYZ
but said that Alamo and National, which are sort of the same company,
did. I was concerned about it being expensive.

That was travel fiasco #1. Travel fiasco #2 was that the traffic on
Friday in Brampton was terrible; the drive to the Save Max Sports
Centre was 45 minutes instead of 20.  I stopped to get some jerk
poutine and decided that I would check in at the airbnb after the
clinic.  We got out late and then I got to the airbnb and the host had
actually fallen asleep and didn't answer the doorbell, the cellphone,
or the airbnb messages. I did a bit of work and then managed to
convince the other airbnb guest that I was not, as she had initially
feared, a "bad person". The host refunded me.

The tournament was relatively large for Ontario (500 competitors), but
they did not have match numbers and the competitors took longer than
they should have to show up. We started late, at 11, and finished at
8:00. Could have been an hour earlier.

It is super important to me to build a community of Ontario referees,
so I planned a dinner at Turtle Jack's after the tournament. Took 2
hours, which would be fine, except that I had decided to drive to
Waterloo and back on Saturday night. Anyway, building community is
more important than having time to pack and sleep, and I think that was
good. We got about 15 people out to dinner.

## Travel planning

I kept on procrastinating my planning for the Brampton weekend. Finally got around to it
2 days before. No airplane, how hard can it be. It was fine except for fiascoes, which
might not have been prevented by planning earlier.

I did some planning for the West Coast trip. Let's see how well it goes.

# Movement statistics

Better than March. Still, it's hard to get enough walking in Ontario, or in the suburbs.
I hate suburbs.
* 🚶 Walking: 71km on 20 days (including 16km on snowshoes)
* 🚲 Biking: 203km on 15 days
* 🚗 Driving: 2163km on 17 days (Montreal, Brampton, around Western Nfld)
* ⛷ Skiing: 58km (plus 50km chairlift)
* 🚌 Bus: 134km on 5 days
* 🚇 Métro: 18km
* 🚆 LRT: 5km
* ✈  Plane: 3,633km (YYZ-YDF, YDF-YUL-YYZ)
* 🚆 Train: 1,974km (GO Kitchener-Toronto 5×; MTRL-TRTO, TRTO-MTRL, DRVL-TRTO)

# Pictures
Did some of the 50 gigabytes of Japan photos, as well as miscellaneous photos from the archives. I think I reduced the number
of unprocessed photos over this month.

Japan, February 2023:
* [Nakasendo: from Nakatsugawa to Magome](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1662)
* [Nakasendo: Magome](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1660)
* [Nakasendo: from Magome to Otsumago](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1661)
* [Epic train ride from Kanazawa to Sapporo](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1658)

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20230414-march/japan-pics" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Torii on the Nakasendo; chestnut rice at Magome; fancy Magome house; MP sitting and relaxing as directed; bamboo grove; conical hats in Magome; old notice board; dinner at the Kameyama; a shinkansen pulling in.</figcaption>
</figure>

Tekapo, Aoraki, Mount Somers, October 2021:
* [Hooker Valley](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1654)
* [Red Tarns](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1654)
* [Lake Tekapo](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1656)

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20230414-march/hooker-valley-red-tarns-lake-tekapo" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Alpenglow on The Footstool; chaffinch; Mount Wakefield and Aoraki; Lake Tekapo and mountains; MP; Hooker Valley from the Red Tarns; the old Empress Hut</figcaption>
</figure>

Vancouver, July 2021:
* [To YVR](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1659)

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20230414-march/to-yvr" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Mountainous near Vancouver; YVR.</figcaption>
</figure>

## The List
No progress with 2021. Well, I copied Abel Tasman pictures onto my computer.
* [January] Zealandia, January 4/14/18/Wellington Butterfly (23), Zealandia (April, June, September, November), Wellington Sunset (November), lens tests (November)

* [September] Paparoa Track & the Glaciers (7)
* [September/October] Abel Tasman Coast Track (4)

Even more pictures from 2022:
* [January] Walking around KW
* [February] Reading week trip to Montreal
* [April] Northland (6)
* [May] trips 1 and 2 to Montreal
* [July] Vancouver (2)
* [August] Brisbane airport walk
* [August] Colonial Knob
* [September] Napier (2)
* [September] Motueka (2)
* [October] Queen Charlotte Track (6)
* [November] New Plymouth (4 days with more than a few pictures)
* [November] Radome/Red Rocks
* [November] Remutaka overnight (2)
* [December] Kereru (03/12), Zealandia (05/12)
* [December] Auckland
* [December] New Lens Day
* [December] Wanaka Grebes (6)
* [December] Gillepsie Circuit (4)
* [December] Mueller Hut (2)
* [December] Glacier iceberg kayaking
* [December] Omarama

Did some 2023 pictures but took a few more:
* [January] AMC
* [February] Japan (7)
* [April] Western Newfoundland (3)
* [April] MP visits Canada

# April posts

* [Edmonton International trip report](/post/20230406-edmonton-intl)
* [Championnat provincial Laval](/post/20230407-championnat-provincial-laval)
* [Japan Part III: Hokkaido and Tokyo](/post/20230416-japan-part-iii)
* [Bouldering Gym Review: Backbone Bouldering Gym](/post/20230419-backbone-bouldering-gym)

# Miscellaneous: home repair
Preparing our place for tenants, I fixed a bunch of hardware, and MP fixed the paint and some holes in the wall.

* Door trim: there was a leak in the roof, which finally got repaired; I had cut out some trim to look at it. I fixed that with the help of a saw that Spiro lent me.
* Kitchen faucet: the old one was annoying me in that it didn't turn and was otherwise wonky. We got a new one, which is a lot like the old one, and I installed it.
* Chairs: took me longer than I'd like to admit to screw chair parts together.
* Vacuum cleaner: installed on the wall.
* Weatherstripping for front door: replaced (needed to exchange it; fortunately, Home Hardware is an easy bike ride away, even if the Uptown Ontario Seed Company location isn't open as much as I might like.

## Acquisitions
* built Lego Kakapo
* Dyson vacuum, reconditioned
* reprinted CO2 meter case
* contact lenses
* shoehorn, again (in metal, from Wal-Mart)
* faucet
* wood to fix trim around door
* weatherstripping for front door
* #0 screwdriver (to fix dining room chairs)
* two pairs of pants
* got 3 pairs of pants & gaiters fixed (thanks Gus!)
* Petzl Nomics
* Suitcase from Thrift on Kent (quaxxed)

## Walks

I did one Walk as a Service. This one was less muddy than the last one. Also, checked out birds at the
Technoparc near Trudeau airport (super muddy) and at the Reserve Faunique Ile St Bernard, with a rental
Sony 100-400 GM lens. It's twice as expensive as my Sigma 100-400 and maybe 20% better?

## Sports

I went to judo practice once. Either I was out of town or I had other
service committments (committee meetings, gym-to-crag presentations).

The climbing situation was much better. I managed to get out 6×, including
once in Bromont at [Backbone]((/post/20230419-backbone-bouldering-gym)) and once in
Stratford at Pursuit.

## Volunteering

There was a lot of refereeing-related volunteering this month. Not that much actual refereeing
(I got on the mat for 4 tachi-waza matches and a couple of groundwork matches at the Tora tournament),
but evaluating and serving as a mat chief. Also co-presented a clinic in Ottawa and helped in Brampton.
Put together a refereeing exam and evaluated the candidates.

Did a bunch of work for the OAC, including giving a gym-to-crag talk in Stratford to 6 engaged listeners; placing an order for stickers to replace our old logo on
Conservation Halton properties; and fixing the ecommerce (enabling the CAPTCHA).

## Restaurants

Western Newfoundland:
* Louis Gee's: pizza and donairs, pretty packed on a Thursday night
* Knotty Pine: very average poutine at the ski lodge at Marble Mountain
* Da Marcus: decent fish and chips on Good Friday
* Harbour Grounds: good chicken salad croissant and chowder for lunch; very sweet hot chocolate
* Sorrento: excellent seafood crepe in Corner Brook
It was Easter, so I couldn't go to some of the places I'd found.

Ontario:
* Martini's in Kitchener: yeah, it is good
* Bauer Kitchen: same; it was a heatwave and the terrasse was booked solid
* Pho Dau Bo (King St, Kitchener): haven't been here since 2019; I liked it but MP didn't find her pho was flavourful enough
* CE food experience: the normal croissant was fine, the chocolate croissant had chocolate cream and was a bit rich
* Kabob Shack: I'd read a glowing review in, well, mathNEWS. Biryani was good, but I wouldn't give it a glowing review.
* Bamba Restaurant, Ottawa: sushi after the clinic and before driving to Montreal
* The Real Jamaican Restaurant, Brampton: great jerk in the jerk poutine; poutine itself was average.
* Turtle Jack, Brampton: it's OK I guess; service was kind of confused
* Mesa in Hamilton (flautas): legit Mexican food in Canada
* St-Hubert: yes, they execute well at scale.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20230414-march/food" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">.</figcaption>
</figure>


## Books

I made good progress on _Before the Dawn_ but did not finish it before
leaving town. The protagonist is having his mid-life crisis and goes
to be a priest at a shrine in the mountains for 4 years. Supposedly he
goes crazy towards the end of the book, but he's not quite crazy yet.

# Conclusion

