---
layout:     post

title:      "December: start of summer / back to winter soon"
date:       2023-01-01
author:     "Patrick Lam"
tags:       ["retrospective"]
categories: ["work", "travel"]
published:  false
image:      "/img/20221203-november/PXL_20221112_113556381.webp"
showtoc:    true
summary:    "Whirlwind Canada tour, where I refereed judo tournaments, served on PhD committees, met up with a ton of people, and did not get COVID. Lots of service, some research, and ignoring teaching. Failed to hike the Round-the-Mountain Circuit around Taranaki due to rain."

---

<style>
.post-heading h1  { color: yellow; text-shadow: 2px 2px 2px grey; }
.meta { color: yellow; }
</style>

I have a Mastodon account! (Well, two: one for research and one for general tooting).
* Research: [@va2lam@discuss.systems](https://discuss.systems/@va2lam)
* General: [@va2lam@mastodon.nz](https://mastodon.nz/@va2lam)

Not much to report on the COVID front. Had one known close contact encounter at the SPLASH banquet but continued to test negative and had no symptoms through 5 days. 

Canada counts seem to be fairly stable? But hospitals and especially pediatric hospitals are super full.

NZ is definitely having a December (start of summer) wave with lots of cases.

China seems to have given up on zero COVID. Omicron is eventually just too hard. I still think there should be measures like masking and improved ventilation. They reduce transmission, at least.

# Professional

OK, winter really is coming and I started to work on my courses next term, specifically ECE 459 assignment overhaul. I coded Rust string processing for basically a week to write a template that students can optimize. I also need to prepare some flipped lectures.

I went to my first conference in three years. It's great to talk to people in person. Being in Auckland, it was super convenient for me. Lots of people made the trip from the US and Europe as well. Not so many from Canada except for a contingent from UBC.

## Collegiality

More service. Internally, there was a master's thesis to read, and two PhD comprehensive exams (one had been rescheduled due to a calendar error). Externally, I also started a new SIGPLAN-M long term mentoring gig and met my mentee at SPLASH.

Did I do any reviews?

## Research

Finally we submitted our Empirical Software Engineering paper. Hope it gets in!

I also gave the talk for my HATRA workshop paper (students couldn't make it) and reprised my Onward! Essays 2020 paper in person. I had a pretty decent audience for all of these talks (yay!) and I think the HATRA Github Copilot paper had the most questions I've ever had following a talk. It is a trendy subject right about now.

# Trips

We went on a hike in the Remutakas, which is almost accessible by transit from Wellington. There is an Uber ride at the end and then it's possible to return by bus (some guy did offer us a ride). We did not hear kiwis, though they are supposedly out there.

The logistics for the SPLASH trip to Auckland were straightforward. I had gotten a flexichange ticket enabling same-day changes, so I could check in at the dorm, Grafton Hall, before the desk closed at 5pm. I was on the 8pm flight and changed to the 10am flight, getting in at 11, and to campus at 1pm (with a lunch break). 

Grafton Hall is a modern student residence, all singles, with ample common space. Was refurbished in 2019. The showers are actually pretty much like airport lounge shower units. A bargain at US40/night.

Five days in Auckland was more than I'd spent in the city before. I shared NZ travel advice with people at SPLASH, but all I really know about Auckland is Mangere, Piha and Aotea. I could also recommend Rotorua as well.


Some of the food was OK. The soft shell crab bao was less tasty than I was hoping. Yooa and Tako had octopus balls (tako). I'm not sure about eating octopus. They may be too smart. Anyway the yakitori in Japan will be tasty.

South Island: Gillespie Circuit, Mount Cook, Wanaka climbing

After scrambling to finish work before the trip, it was off to the South Island. Wellington Airport wasn't too crowded, but Queenstown airport was! Wow. So many people.

We were supposed to take the shuttle to Wanaka at 4pm from central Queenstown. But the 12:45 city bus didn't show up. So I changed to the 2:30 shuttle. I think that was added after we booked. Also changed: the price, by $15pp. If I hadn't changed the time maybe I could have complained about the price change. But it's not like anyone was answering the phone. At least the web form for changing the time worked.

Highlights about the shuttle: 1) guy next to us was from Canada (observations!) 2) air quality was terrible with 3700ppm.

There is a new boardwalk in Wanaka, opened November 2021. It provides good views of two dozen grebes, who are currently nesting (no babies yet though). The boardwalk was on the way to Wanaka Bakpaka, which is a convenient place to stay; very clean.

We had excellent (original) tacos at Amigos. Some normal things like carnitas, pork belly, and fish; also duck and fried chicken; and a caesar salad (!) taco.

Also tasty breakfast at Big Fig.

Went to the library to plan the Japan trip. The Wanaka library is perhaps more prescriptive than it needs to be about where to sit. The couches are either in the teenagers' section, or the kids' section, or the no-devices section. Anyway we sat there and consulted the Japan Lonely Planet guidebook, while waiting for our car rental pickup time.

# Travels

December looked a lot like November, except that I had half as much biking (I was away from my bikes for much of the month).
* 🚶 Walking: 175km on 29 days
* 🚲 Biking: 22km on 3 days
* 🚗 Driving: 1,016km on 13 days (823km around Wanaka)
* 🚗 Taxi: 6.1km (from NPL airport; around New Plymouth 2×; to get to Wellington hike starts 2×)
* ✈  Plane: 34,560km (WLG-AKL-NRT-YUL, YYZ-YVR-AKL-NPL)
* 🚆 Train: 667km (MTRL-TRTO, UP Express, Paekakariki-Wellington)
* 🚌 Bus: 181km on 4 days (including Waterloo-Toronto for 102km)
* 🚇 Métro: 72.9km on 6 days (mostly in Montreal)
* 🚇 SkyTrain: 28km (YVR-Vancouver and back)
* 🚆 LRT: 4.8km (dentist appointment)
* 🚣 Kayak: 2.8km (New Plymouth)

## Travel planning

Montreal car recovery trip
Japan
Canada April

# Pictures

I did get through a lot of pictures in the first half of December.

I finished the Banks Peninsula Track pictures from October 2022:
* Day 2: [Stony Bay to Akaroa](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/1600)
* Day 3: [Akaroa and Christchurch on a rainy day]

I did some new lens tests:
* [Wellington through a new lens, December 2022]
and some old Wellington pictures:
* [Eastern Rosella, September 2021]

I also finished the Oamaru/Mount Cook/Tekapo album:
* [Back to Wellington, November 2021]

And there was the Auckland Open and Aotea Track from July 2021, including some black petrels:
* [PPQ to AKL]
* [Auckland "International" Open]
* [Aotea Track day 1]
* [Aotea Track day 2]
* [Aotea Track day 3]

221004-banks-peninsula-day-2-to-akaroa/
221005-akaroa-and-christchurch/
221212-wellington-new-lens

210716-ppq-to-akl
210717-akl-open
210718-aotea-day-1
210719-aotea-day-2
210720-aotea-day-3

211124-back-to-wlg
210901-eastern-rosella



# December posts

Two posts is not bad for having done a lot of travelling in December.
* [Aspect-Oriented Programming in 2022](/post/20221202-aspect-oriented-programming)
* [Travel antics: Leaving Wanaka Early](/post/20221231-leaving-wanaka)

# Miscellanous

## Acquisitions

I had thought that I had lost my new USB storage key in Auckland. I had not! It turned up a few weeks later. Go figure.

T-shirts are subject to entropy, and I got a few new merino shirts to eventually replace the Icebreaker shirts with runs in them. Of course I'll continue wearing the shirts with runs in the outdoors, but not so much in the city.
* Mons Royale [Men's Temple Merino Air-Con Garment Dyed T-Shirt](https://www.monsroyales.com/mons-royale-temple-merino-air-con-t-shirt-men/)
* Earth Sea Sky [Men's Metro Tee &mdash; NZ Birds Print-Navy](https://www.bivouac.co.nz/brands/earth-sea-sky/earth-sea-sky-men-s-metro-tee-nz-birds-print.html)
I'd gotten my pants fixed in Waterloo, but that was just a stop-gap measure. They're broken again. I will have to investigate the pants situation. I own a lot of pants, but maybe not other summer-weight hiking pants. I definitely have a bunch of heavier pants, 
including some soft-shell pants I use to play in the snow.

I also got a new-to-me 35mm prime lens:
* Sony 35mm f/1.8
Planning to use this lens for evening street photography in Japan. It should be better at low light than the kit 15-50 lens, which is the only other "normal" lens that I have. The other lenses are either telephoto or wide-angle lenses.

## Walks

* Second day of our hike in the Remutakas from Haurangi Hut
* Gillespie Circuit including Crucible Lake sidetrip (2nd try)
* Mueller Hut

## Sports

Wellington Closed (2W)
Smashi-waza at WJA
Outdoor climbing in Wanaka (3 days) + Titahi Bay (1 day)

## Restaurants
Yooa & Tako tako stand in Auckland
free bagels from Best Ugly Bagels
WJA chinese restaurant

# Conclusion