---
layout:     post

title:      "Review: Ru by Kim Thúy"
date:       2024-08-30
author:     "Patrick Lam"
tags:       ["reviews", "immigration", "refugees", "ca"]
categories: ["books"]
image:      "/img/20240830-ru/06840_tractor.avif"
showtoc:    true
summary:    "Thoughts on differences between the book version and film version of _Ru_."

---

<style>
.post-heading h1  { color: yellow; text-shadow: 2px 2px 2px grey; }
.meta { color: yellow; }
</style>

I've mentioned the movie before (I watched it on an Air Canada flight), but
I went and bought the novel last year (well, the English translation),
and finally got around to reading it now. When I was buying the book,
I forgot that the original text was in French, which of course I can
read perfectly well.  I'll have to get the French version next time
I'm in Canada. The other Viet diaspora book I need to get around to reading is
[Sunshine Nails](https://www.simonandschuster.com/books/Sunshine-Nails/Mai-Nguyen/9781668010501), though that is Toronto-based, which I identify with less.
As I think I've said before, the story in _Ru_ closely parallels my parents' journey,
except that my parents left in 1971, *before* stuff got messy, on airplanes, via
France.

* Kim Thúy. _Ru_. First edition, 2009; translated by Sheila Fischman, 2012.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240830-ru/book">}}
</figure>

_Ru_ is a quick read, made up of a hundred or so short pieces of a page
or two, with various scenes from the protagonist Tịnh's life. I think
I read the book faster than it took me to watch the movie (116 minutes).

Presumably it is closely based on the author's life, with artistic
license sometimes; but you never really know when there is something
made up, as with any art.

The novel is mostly a superset of the movie. There are a lot of scenes
and characters that are in the book but not the movie, like the
protagonist's visits to Hanoi and her children. (I think I said this
before, but I can relate to the North Vietnamese/South Vietnamese
dialect and culture gap; I also note that she always calls it Saigon
and not Ho Chi Minh City).

The host family and Québécois in general felt more prominent in the
movie, with a welcome-to-Quebec party and a scene with a host family
event in a cabin some distance from town.

I thought the extended Québécois host family was a lot of people, but
reviewing the trailer, it was only 8 people compared to Tịnh's nuclear
family of 4. In my case, 4 of my mother's 6 siblings landed in
Montreal when they immigrated (and lived in the same apartment), and
my extended family gatherings were huge (20+), while my spouse's
Québécois family was also more like 8 people. The ratio is backwards
compared to my experience.  In the book it is Tịnh's extended family
that has Christmas gatherings when they are new to Canada, gathering
in one place, while normally scattered.

There is a passage in the book where Tịnh writes about her American
dream (yes, not just open to Americans); it had made her "more
substantial, heavier, weightier" as compared to Vietnamese in
Vietnam. (And yet it's not like Vietnamese in Vietnam haven't been
busy collecting more $s.) I have talked to my cousin about how we can
be immediately spotted as Việt Kiều, or overseas Vietnamese, even from
the way we walk and dress, let alone speak. The book has more
exploration of Tịnh's identity as a young adult and visiting Vietnam,
but it's always hard to explore interior state in a movie.

In the movie, the fate of Tịnh's cousin Sao Mai (the alpha cousin, as
I put it) is unknown, and an important outstanding question; in the
book she stays in Vietnam and becomes an important businesswoman and
public personality. But the movie doesn't go back to Vietnam. I guess
that whole chapter of her life adds complexity in a way that is not worth it. 

Overall, one could say that the movie preserves the central spirit of
the movie&mdash;the main plot, as it were&mdash;and many of the important
characters (though I think some of them are combined). I don't remember
the movie talking about sex at all, while it shows up in the book. Violence,
of course, is in both, and can't really be avoided in this context
(after all, people left Vietnam for a reason.)
