---
layout:     post

title:      "Trip report: Gisborne, November 28–Dec 1 2024"
date:       2024-12-05
author:     "Patrick Lam"
tags:       ["nz"]
categories: ["trip-reports"]
published:  true
image:      "/img/20241205-gisborne/08030_log_transporting_ship_v1.avif"
showtoc:    true
summary:    "Three days in Gisborne, with cycling to wineries, stingrays, and walking at Cook's Cove."

---

<style>
.post-heading h1  { color: white; background-color: #aaa; background-color: rgba(192,192,192,0.8); padding: 0.5em; text-shadow: 2px 2px 2px grey; }
.meta { color: white; }
</style>

Would I want to live in Gisborne? Nah, too car-centric
([protests](https://www.1news.co.nz/2024/11/07/gisborne-councillors-face-protesters-over-grey-st-trial/)
against making Grey St less car-centric, which goes against everything I stand for; less cars please!). Resource-based economy with lots of logging trucks driving through town.
Seems to be possible to know everyone.

# Getting to Gisborne

There aren't a lot of flights to Gisborne, but for now there are
enough for us. We left on Thursday evening.  (Total first world
problem: the food in the Air NZ lounge was less tasty than one might
hope. Sometimes it's really good. Sometimes it's OK. We won't talk
about the hash browns in the YVR Maple Leaf Lounge.) It was actually a
super bumpy flight. MP characterizes it as the worst flight she's ever
been on. There was also, in the news, a flight from Dunedin to
Christchurch that diverted to Nelson (Wellington too windy) that same
night, and then there was insufficient accommodation overnight in Nelson for the
passengers. There were complaints from the passengers, but the Air NZ staff
stayed overnight with the passengers and really seem to have gone the extra mile.

OK, so we arrive in Gisborne at 8pm. (It has a noticeably high Māori
population).  Turns out that all of the taxis at the airport are
pre-booked. I heard that they could come back in 15-20
minutes. Nothing is very far. But the weather in Gisborne is warm
(high of 27 that day?) and it's a fine day, so I talk MP into walking an hour to
our holiday park, with a brilliant sunset.  Some of the pedestrian
infrastructure is quite middling, but a lot of it is also on small
suburban streets, so less critical than on highways. (Also, there was
an auntie waiting for her ride, who seemed to know everyone passing
by. As did the security guard at the airport on our flight back to
Wellington.  You think Wellington is small, try Gisborne.)

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20241202-november/gisborne-1" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Carving welcoming us to GIS; brilliant red sky; pōhutukawa; inside Matawhero winery; on&nbsp;the&nbsp;road; railway bridge at Waipaoa.</figcaption>
</figure>

# Cycling Gisborne

The plan for the next day was to rent bicycles from Cycle Gisborne and
bike to some wineries. (Turns out: the number of wineries we
reached was 2). MP had called earlier in the week and been told that for
the wineries trip, 10:30 was a good starting time; she made a
reservation by just telling them her name (pretty casual!). We had a
lot of breakfast at Flagship&mdash;too much really. Then we had an
hour's bike ride, through some outskirts and farms, out to Matawhero,
where we had the chicken and duck parfait. There was also a Christmas
party going on there.  Another half hour took us to The Vines at
Bushmere Estate, where we had quite good pepper squid. Food pictures
at the end of the [November report](/post/20241202-november#food).

The ride along State Highways 2 and 35 isn't awesome. But we managed
to avoid highways after a while. It was a bit worse than back roads in
Quebec that I've ridden on: more traffic, less shoulder.

After Bushmere, we then went and took the
long way around. In fact, first back towards Matawhero, and then along
an embankment along the Waipaoa River. The Cycle Gisborne staff had
highlighted this on the map, and it's kind of part of the [Motu
Trails](https://motutrails.co.nz/), but Google didn't suggest it. I
did manage to use the Internet to find a description of this path, and
it worked pretty well. At one point on the Waipaoa River there were
heaps of paradise shelducks (odd, usually we just see 2 at a time) and
what looked to be dabchicks but were actually grey ducks/mallards upon
picture inspection.

The biking was marginally acceptable but the [Great Rides](https://www.nzcycletrail.com/find-your-ride/23-great-rides/) in
Queenstown, Rotorua, and Wellington were better, with almost all
off-road riding on those, for instance.

I had reserved a car rental at Budget for 3:30. So, we had two rental
bicycles and a rental car, 5km away from the bicycle rental
place. It's like the wolf, goat, and cabbage problem, but with less
eating. An exercise for the reader: figure out the solution.

We had a surprisingly good dinner of kofta at Mediterranean kitchen & Grill,
which has a pretty diverse menu for what is basically a takeout counter with tables
(pasta, BBQ chicken, salads). It definitely had that grilled flavour.

After that, I was back at the holiday park and worked on my Mueller Hut pictures.
This holiday park wasn't our favourite. The room was fine (though I wish there were more
rugs) but it was actually next to SH35, which was kind of noisy, and there were people
talking loudly outside our room, though they weren't noisy late. They were noisy before 7AM until
MP told them to be quiet.

# Stingrays

[Dive Tatapouri](https://www.divetatapouri.com/) runs a Reef Ecology
tour with stingray petting.  (With that name, you might think they
provide other diving services, but there's no mention of them on their
webpage, though apparently [easy
diving](https://www.divepacific.co.nz/post/divers-guide-poverty-bay-east-coast)
is available in the area.)  I signed up for that, which was at 12:10 for us; it
depends on the tides. We went to the farmer's market before that, but
it was pretty small, and the best we could do on short notice for
actual breakfast was the Kaiti Hub, where we got some actually pretty
good lamb korma; unfortunately it took a while to prepare and we ended
up eating it at Dive Tatapouri while waiting for the stingray tour
(which was fortunately delayed a few minutes due to rain).

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20241202-november/gisborne-2" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Dive Tatapouri stingray tours: with kids; look at that stingray; bunch of peope looking; mouth; guide interacting with stingray; stingrays as puppies; guide explaining; Tolaga Bay wharf; cliffs and rocks from the wharf.</figcaption>
</figure>

Apparently a few years ago the owner of Dive Tatapouri had noticed
that stingrays came to visit him while he was out photographing and
fishing, and he turned this into a business. There is a group of
guides who can take groups out on the water. They have developed a
rapport with some of the stingrays in the bay, who come by for snacks,
petting, and minor mayhem like pushing the guides into holes. The
stingrays are wild animals but also kind of like 200kg puppies, and
the guides have named and can recognize some of the stingrays. We had two kinds of
stingrays: I think it was the NZ long-tailed stingray and NZ eagle
stingray.

I did not have an underwater camera nor a GoPro so photography was not ideal, alas.

After the stingrays, I had hoped to go to Cottles Cafe in Tolaga Bay.
They were closed on the weekend. I don't know why. Food was a pie from a store in
Tolaga Bay.

We actually drove around somewhat ineffectively, first to the Cooks
Cove walkway trailhead, then to the [Tolaga Bay
wharf](https://www.tairawhitigisborne.co.nz/listings/operator/1418/tolaga-bay-wharf)
(repaired but now again half-closed; but I saw some people on the
closed part somehow), then to the village, then back to the trailhead, decided that
we didn't want to do this walk on a cloudy day, and then back through the village to the [Ernest
Reeve Walkway / Tatarahake Cliff Walk](https://www.rankers.co.nz/experiences/10274-Tatarahake_Cliff_Walk_Tolaga_Bay) (80m elevation gain to a view of the bay).

We had another fancy meal at the Crawford Road Kitchen, associated with the Gisborne Wine Centre,
where they centralize all of the wine selling from the region. Somehow, no wine on Sunday.

# Cook's Cove and Tairawhiti museum

Finally, before our 3:25pm flight out on Sunday, I thought we'd do
some hiking.

Finding breakfast on Sunday morning was
difficult and we had more pies. I had a Gear meat pie from Kaiti Hub, since
the actual bakery was closed for Sunday. The meat was tender, but the
pasty was not that flaky. Maybe it's better from the HQ.

To get to the hike, sadly, we had to drive an hour back north to
Tolaga Bay again, but it was worth it to get the better weather for
the view of Cook's Cove and also yet another rock with a hole in it
(hi Percé!).  Some people like recreational driving and would do the
whole Pacific Coast Highway (which is on the East coast; take that,
North America), but not us.  The track is well-formed and there is a
bit of elevation gain, but not too much. There is a monument pointing
out the Cook landing site, though it's easy to miss. There were a few
other groups on the track, but not super busy on this first day of
summer.

I've been starting to make a collection of Captain Cook statues and
added the one in Gisborne to my collection.  We had lunch in town and
then, since our flight was delayed, I had enough time to check out the
Tairawhiti museum for 30 minutes. There is enough there for at least
an afternoon, including lots of local artifacts and art. The $5
admission is very reasonable.

Back at the airport, I dropped the car key in the slot and we waited
for the flight back to Wellington.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20241202-november/gisborne-3" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Cook's Cove walkway hilly pastures; the cove itself; me; sheep looking out; sheep and monument; pastoral; Canada geese family; Captain Cook; Star of Canada shipwreck diorama.</figcaption>
</figure>
