---
layout:     post

title:      "April: Whanganui Journey, three papers submitted, and a trip to Tasmania"
date:       2024-05-20
author:     "Patrick Lam"
tags:       ["retrospective"]
categories: ["work", "travel"]
published:  true
image:      "/img/20240520-april/08843_kangaroo_party.webp"
showtoc:    true
summary:    "Another new place: Tasmania (recommended!). Between the two trips, I did a bunch of work, which I hope will pay off: three paper submissions. Just life as usual."

---

<style>
.post-heading h1  { color: cyan; text-shadow: 2px 2px 2px grey; }
.meta { color: cyan; }
</style>

Now that I've put the photos into a post by itself, and especially with 848 photos processed last month,
I hope that this post will be more tractable.

There was a lot of work this month, but this time bookended by the Whanganui Journey and leaving for Tasmania
for the Overland Track. I hope that these efforts will pay off. Certainly one has to submit papers to publish.

In the middle of the month, I had a Bad Tech Day with respect to
Zoom. My computer probably doesn't have enough RAM (16GB), and anyway
I always prefer to teleconference from my phone. The only problem with that is
that I can't really open links. Anyway, Zoom said that I needed a new
Zoom version to connect to the server, but the new version wasn't
available on Android for another week yet. That seemed incompetent.
Maybe tech companies need competent staff, not layoffs. I suspect there was a
vulnerability involved also.

May really does start to get cold inside. Back to the 16° indoor temperatures!

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240520-april/highlights" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Canoe on the Whanganui; leaving Whakahoro; four goats; kayaking a small rapid; School Strike for Climate in Wellington; Upper Hutt judo; brown teal/pāteke at Zealandia; kookaburra at Warrandyte State Park; FARO and Unseen Seen at MONA; black-fronted dotterel at Islands.</figcaption>
</figure>

# COVID

Not much to report this month. April was a bit of a lull, with NZ
numbers jumping in May again. Next-generation vaccines still being
worked on but nothing available to me here right now.

# Professional

Resubmitted two papers, to ECOOP and OOPSLA, and sent a new paper to Onward!.
I think Onward! is actually a strong fit for that paper. I'm not so sure about ECOOP, but we'll
see, I guess; we've tried SE venues for that work and it didn't get in. I also saw similar work
get rejected from PLDI. I'd say that I did a lot of work this month.

It was strange that ECOOP did artifact evaluation concurrently with paper review.
Unfortunately we forgot to hit the "submit" button on our ECOOP artifact.

Quantitatively, worked on 21 days. There are 22 work days in April.

## Grad students/mentees/collaborators

I was talking to my students and collaborators on 13 days, which is
on the high side. Plus 1 chat with a prospective student (who I am not taking).

## Collegiality

Two early-morning PhD comprehensive exams (ugh) and a master's
presentation.  Everyone did fine, even me. I do take a few minutes to
prepare for the exams the day before, and the master's is a day of
reading earlier in the week. Scanned written comments and sent them to
the student.

Also some freelance undergrad advising about how to get into research
and reviewed a course outline for a colleague. (A great thing about
Waterloo from an instructor's point of view is that you don't *have* to
have your outlines reviewed, although maybe the students would benefit).

## Consulting

Again a light month on the consulting front. Some outcomes work. My favourite!

# Trips

We did go "overseas" in April: Australia does count as overseas, even
if it's heaps closer than Europe. That was for the Overland
Track. And, just over half of the Whanganui Journey was in April.
For the rest of the month, I was in Wellington.

## Whanganui Journey

There was a condensed version in March's report and I'll link to the full report again.
There are a few pictures in the highlights and I'll put the ones from the photos post here as well.

* [Full trip report: Whanganui Journey](/post/20240408-whanganui-journey/)

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240514-april-photos/whanganui-journey" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Capital Connection; Palmerston North; Tamaranui Canoe Hire HQ; MP in a canoe setting out; rapids on first day; upside down canoe in rapids on first day; placid water; falls; Whakahoro bunkroom; view from Whakahoro (note elevation gain); welcome swallow; John Coull toilets; Brooke and Claire on day 4; more canoes; me and MP at Bridge to Nowhere; sunset at John Coull Hut (with bats).</figcaption>
</figure>


## Melbourne, Tasmania and Overland Track

So far I've written part 1 of the Overland Track TR:

* [Impressions of the Overland Track and comparison with NZ Great Walks](/post/20240511-overland-track-australia-vs-new-zealand)

There is probably going to be another part where I write about the day-by-day itinerary
(though there are lots of other resources with that information as well). I can write here
about the non-track parts of the trip, though.

### Melbourne, April 28

Originally we weren't even supposed to have a stop in Melbourne! We
had booked the Auckland-Hobart service but Air New Zealand (and many
other airlines) are short on planes, so they rebooked us through
Melbourne. I think we actually had two schedule changes, the last one
leaving us with almost all day in Melbourne (8am to 4pm).  I didn't
appreciate the 6am departure: especially because online checkin didn't
work, we were supposed to get to the airport by 4:30am, and the bus
doesn't work for that. Biking to WLG with gear would have been difficult.

Arrival in Melbourne was smooth, though we futzed a bit with trying to
re-check our luggage. The luggage needed to be re-checked after
Australian biosecurity and Qantas wouldn't take it until 4 hours prior
to take-off. So we were stuck with it all day, which fortunately
wasn't a big deal this time.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240520-april/melbourne" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Uncivilized hour at WLG; arrival at MEL at a more civilized hour; crimson rosella; sulphur-crested cockatoo; galah.</figcaption>
</figure>

Alex came from Eltham to pick us up (and drop us off later). I hadn't
seen Alex and Nora for over a decade (since their wedding?); it was
nice to see them and to meet their daughter Elena. After breakfast in
the WLG lounge and second breakfast on the plane, we had brunch in
Eltham with bagels, pretzels, and cheese from the local farmer's
market, which was good.

Eventually, Fabien and Teresa came by and we went to [Warrandyte State
Park](https://www.parks.vic.gov.au/places-to-see/parks/warrandyte-state-park)/Pound Bend for a little walk, which included views of the Yarra
River, a couple of birds, and a bunch of jumping kangaroos, which were
the first that we'd seen in the wild. From the park it was straight back
to the airport and then to Hobart.

Sometimes people say that airline status is overrated. It is more true
that in the US you can buy all of the benefits (for some price). It is
less true in Canada. Anyway, the point is that we were at MEL and had
no status on Qantas.  Security moved fast. The plane was delayed. We
were hungry since we chose to not bring any food to Australia. Air NZ
lounges have pretty good food; on average, better than Maple Leaf
Lounges. We didn't have access to any lounges. One can pay for food,
and we did. Somehow the crispy pork banh mi looked good but was
not tasty. Sushi Jiro was OK. I wasn't keen to spend $6 on a small bag
of chips.

The airport bus in Hobart for two is about the same price as an Uber.
We took the Uber to the [Mayfair Plaza](https://mayfairplaza.com.au/)
in Sandy Bay, which is a relatively posh neighbourhood near the
university. Then, we went to [Suminato](https://suminato.com.au/) (and
came back the next day!) and did a grocery run after supper. Australian
grocery stores aren't quite as extra as US grocery stores, but it feels like
they have more choice than NZ stores. I wonder if that's actually true.

### Hobart (MONA), April 29

After a tasty breakfast at [Daci and Daci](https://dacidaci.com.au/) (MP liked it so much that she got dessert
there for after dinner), we went to [MONA](https://mona.net.au/), which is a huge tourist
attraction for Tasmania.


<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240520-april/hobart" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Rainbow over Sandy Bay; MONA ROMA boats; Investigator research vessel; sheep on MONA ROMA; industrial Hobart neighbourhood; MONA entrance; words in water; art; Hobart architecture; banh mi stall; judo at Clarence PCYC.</figcaption>
</figure>

OK, what about MONA? Well, they run a fleet of MONA ROMA boats from
central Hobart to the museum, which is a neat way to get there. ("Sit
on sheep".) The formal entrance also involves climbing some stairs to
access the museum (though there is an accessible entrance as
well). There were indeed lots of people visiting the museum.

Overall, it's a pretty epic museum built into the Hobart rock. It's
just this facility owned by this guy David Walsh who made some money
as an applied mathematician, er, professional gambler. There are some pieces
which are neat, but much of the art is somewhat weird or disturbing. I suppose
art is supposed to make you feel something. There's kind of nothing which is
"oh, that's a pretty piece of art".

My friend Chris strongly recommended that I see the Turrell "art rides"
[Unseen Seen + Weight of Darkness](https://mona.net.au/stuff-to-do/unseen-seen) and
[Event Horizon](https://mona.net.au/stuff-to-do/event-horizon).

We went to Event Horizon first. This is a room with no visible borders; all of the surfaces
are painted so that you don't see anything about the room's configuration. You just see the
half dozen people there with you, and the exit if you're facing that way. The light colour
slowly changes throughout your time there.

Then, we went to Unseen Seen, where you sit inside a ball and the light quickly changes colour.
You kind of see weird visual effects, but again, no shapes. Unseen Seen is paired with Weight of
Darkness, where you navigate to some chairs in a completely dark room for 15 minutes. MP really liked
that, despite misgivings about sensory deprivation chambers.

After the Turrell "art rides", we wandered around the museum and had lunch at Dubsy's, where a lot of
people did not like the not-burgers. We did not have a not-burger. The tagine was actually pretty good.

I was not thrilled that Mayfair Plaza doesn't store luggage unless
you're coming back, so we had to bring it to our next destination,
Hobart Tower Motel. That was a hassle for the next morning.

Also, we got a bunch of dehydrated food from [Strive Food](https://strivefood.com.au/) which was pretty good.
It does require using one's pot to cook the food, so a bit more stove time, but it's also lighter.
They have a small storefront in Hobart, presumably where their facility is.

I also visited the judo club at the Clarence PCYC, who seemed to like having me visit. Apparently people from
Wellington had been there a few years ago to attend a clinic as well. I showed some techniques.

And, as I wrote above, we went to Suminato again (and got recognized as repeat customers).

## Launceston, April 30

The bus from Hobart to Launceston was reasonably but not completely full. No complaints about that
service. I always prefer trains, but Tasmania isn't that populated. There were three Sams on the
bus and staff got a bit confused when checking off passengers. Other people on the Overland had
delays flying into Launceston.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240520-april/launceston" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Painting of cat; pink-eared duck and friends; great egret; grey teals; great cormorant (aka black shag); superb fairy wren; yellow-tailed black cockatoos in formation; Tamar Islands sunset.</figcaption>
</figure>

We walked across town to [Sporties](https://sportieshotel.com.au/) ("A
Proper Sports Pub") and stayed in the rooms above the pub. Not posh,
but totally fine. Not noisy, in particular. But first, we had tasty Vietnamese food at Noodles N Rolls-tastic just off the bus.

After we got to the hotel (with another quick supermarket stop to get some more things we'd forgotten),
we went to the [Tamar Islands Wetlands](https://parks.tas.gov.au/explore-our-parks/tamar-island-wetlands-centre).
There was a tour bus which dropped off Asian toursts for a while, and then they left. New birds: Cape Barren Goose,
Pink-eared Duck, Yellow-tailed Black Cockatoo, Forest Raven. Good bird site.

I tried to figure out the bus to Tamar Islands but I couldn't find any
reasonable way to pay for the bus.  I haven't had cash for a while now
and the withdrawal fee was either $5 (at a white-label ATM) or $7.50
(at a bank ATM).  No thank you. I wonder what fee ANZ Australia would
have charged to withdraw from our ANZ NZ account, though I did not try
that.

MP thought that maybe we should have dinner at Sporties, but we instead went to
Alchemy. MP's bao and tacos were good. So was my chicken parm, though it was enormous.

The Overland post will start with May 1, day 1 of the Overland Track, and our pickup in the morning.

## Travel planning

Some upcoming trips:
* Cascade-Dart: was previously planned for March and rescheduled for May. In April we did a bit of replanning for May, but then when we came back from Overland we decided to aim for December instead. There is 20cm of snow forecast for Ben Lomond for the Saturday before our trip.
* Old Ghost Road: planning this NZ West Coast trip for late June; it's not at elevation.

# Movement statistics

Only one plane trip, no trains. Relatively large amount of bus and taxi, as well as a boat ([MONA ROMA](https://buy.mona.net.au/getting-to-mona)). Less walking and more biking than usual.

* 🚶 Walking: 72km on 22 days (still canoeing, plus in-town in Wellington, but no hikes; well below average)
* 🚲 Biking: 83km on 14 days (high for Wellington; includes 8.2km ebike)
* 🚗 Driving: 130km on 3 days (Upper Hutt and Australia)
* 🚗 Taxi: 51km (to WLG, from HBA, and around Launceston) 
* 🚌 Inter-city bus: 466km on 2 days (Raetihi to Wellington; Hobart to Launceston)
* ✈ Plane: 3,206km (WLG-MEL-HBA)
* 🚣 Canoe distance: 90km (last three days of Whanganui Journey)
* 🚣 Boat: 24km (MONA ROMA)

## Walks

None (except for Pound Bend). The Great Walk that isn't a walk, well, isn't a walk; it's a canoe trip. Did walk a bit on the School Strike for Climate.

Also went to Zealandia a couple of times to practice photography.

# Pictures

* [April photos report](/post/20240514-april/photos)

Some good progress here, though still an enormous backlog. As always, pictures are clickable to go to the full gallery.

* Sets of pictures posted: 25
* Total pictures posted: 848
* Total pictures in selection pool: 3299
* Accept rate: 25.7% (min 10.8%, max 65.3%; should compute this per camera; I think multi-shots and tricky captures more common on the good cameras)

I also contributed to this photo site:
* [Puteketeke](https://justbirds.photo/2024/puteketeke/)

In other camera news, I got tired of focussing on the trees that are in front of the birds, so I experimented with back-button focus. There were a few misfires on Overland but not bad overall.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240514-april-photos/highlights" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">South Rim of the Grand Canyon; Grand Canyon Lodge view; kākā at Zealandia; aerial view of Tapuae-O-Uenuku; rainbow lorikeet at Botanic Garden Mount Annan; nearby red-rumped parrot; Bondi Beach in the distance; kata-guruma at Edmonton International; Makara; Arrowtown huts; Mount Barff; canoe on the Whanganui; leaving Whakahoro; four goats; kayaking a small rapid.</figcaption>
</figure>

# April posts

The Whanganui Journey trip report had pretty good turnaround time, and was the only blog post for the month. Of course there were some papers.
* [Trip report: Whanganui Journey (the Great Walk that isn't a walk)](/post/20240408-whanganui-journey)

# Miscellaneous

Definitely was in Wellington for most of the month: 24 days out of
30. Also submitted Canadian tax returns, as required.


## Acquisitions

I lost a hat on the bus back from Whanganui, so I got a replacement hat.
* [Rab Logo Beanie](https://rab.equipment/eu/logo-beanie)

Also, my local Synology NAS was complaining about drive failure, so I got a replacement drive. The extra terabyte isn't usable unless I replace the other drive as well.

* [WD Red Plus 4TB](https://www.pbtech.co.nz/product/HDDWD22402/WD-Red-Plus-4TB-35-Internal-HDD-SATA3---256MB-Cach)

We also got another Aarn pack for MP (which seems to have worked well on the Overland) and an actual below-0 sleeping bag.

Also we got some super pricey "ebike brake pads" (NZ$95 for front and rear) and installed them on MP's bike with the help of [Bikespace](https://wellington.govt.nz/news-and-events/news-and-information/our-wellington/2023/03/bikespace-offering-free-communtiy-bike-repairs-and-maintenance).

## Sports

Being mostly in Wellington resulted in 6× judo practice based on how
the days of the week lined up (though once in Hobart). I missed judo
on ANZAC day and the day after I got back from the Whanganui Journey.

For climbing, I managed 4× at Faultline. It does seem like a monthly
pass is going to be worthwhile at Faultline. I still think that one
needs to go 3× per week to actually get good at a sport, and I'm
closer to 1.5× per week, but do I have time for 3×?

## Restaurants

Whanganui Journey (Raetihi):
* [Coach Café](https://www.facebook.com/p/Coach-Cafe-Takeaways-100044359309214/): Off the river I ordered creamy mushrooms and eggs, and then I had a toasty to go. Both exceeded expectations for the only option in Raetihi in the afternoon.

Wellington:
* [Saigon Taste](https://www.saigontaste.co.nz/): Was there once (when Orange Chinese food truck not available) and the pho was better than at Fisherman's Plate, though I only have 1 data point so far.
* [Graze Wine Bar](https://grazewinebar.co.nz/): Has been open for two years in Kelburn Village, replacing the butcher, but often looks busy (and I was doubtful about the ventilation). We went on a Saturday afternoon and almost had the place to ourselves. Creative tapas-style menu; we ordered chef's choice snack attack for 2 which was more than enough for lunch, though we did get extra bread to eat the sauce with. Butterfish tasty.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240520-april/food-nz" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Creamy mushrooms and eggs, toasty at Coach Café; pho from Saigon Taste; 3 dishes from Graze.</figcaption>
</figure>

Melbourne Airport:
* [Jiro Sushi](https://sushijiro.com.au/location-express-melbourne-airport/): actually seemed to be a good choice, but...
* [Mobo Moga](https://www.melbourneairport.com.au/eat/mobo-moga): "fusion SE asian": wouldn't do that again, and MP was still hungry, hence the sushi.
* Qantas in-flight snack: the cheese and crackers they served us on MEL-HBA was quite appreciated.

Hobart:
* [Suminato](https://suminato.com.au/): we got recognized when we came back the next day; good sushi, grilled eggplant, croquette, and the tempura was just right.
* [Daci & Daci](https://dacidaci.com.au/): have expanded to three locations in Hobart; we had worthy croissants and desserts. Would like to have their high tea!
* [Dubsy's](https://mona.net.au/eat-drink/dubsys): maybe the least fancy place at MONA? has vegetarian food and "invasive species-meats"; a lot of people hate the burger but we ordered something that is actually supposed to be vegetables, which was good.
* [Banh Mi 'N Grill](https://www.banhmiandgrill.com.au/): 10× better banh mi than at Mobo Moga, actually tasted like something. Ran over just before closing as MP was trying on some shoes.
* MONA ROMA: they sold me a scallop pie via PA announcement. I don't regret it!

Launceston:
* [Noodles N Rolls-tastic](https://www.facebook.com/nnr.tastic/): legit Vietnamese place, good pho.
* [Alchemy](https://www.alchemylaunceston.com.au/): I had an enormous chicken parm which was also (cold) breakfast the next day; MP had prawn tacos and bao, which were tasty, more reasonably sized and made for a good dinner.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240520-april/food-oz" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Second breakfast on Air NZ service to Melbourne; kinda tasteless Mobo Moga banh mi; in-flight snack on Qantas, MEL-HBA; eggplant, croquette, and sushi at Suminato; quiche at Daci & Daci; remains of a scallop pie on MONA ROMA; tagine from Dubsy's; banh mi at Banh Mi 'N Grill in Hobart; sushi, tempura, and sushi at Suminato; enormous chicken parm at Alchemy; pho from Noodles n Rolls-tastic.</figcaption>
</figure>


## Volunteering

The usual. Beaver Valley Climbing Festival is taking shape with the
OAC, which is great. I wonder if the Scout group is less cohesive
because there are no regular Group-level in-person meetings. Also
helped revise a Judo Ontario refereeing exam.

# Conclusion

Productive month in terms of both submissions and travel. We'll see how
that goes.
