---
layout:     post

title:      "May: waiting for reviews; Tasmania and South Island trips"
date:       2024-06-11
author:     "Patrick Lam"
tags:       ["retrospective"]
categories: ["work", "travel"]
published:  true
image:      "/img/20240611-may/02505_low_flying_albatross.avif"
showtoc:    true
summary:    "Some work, though mostly waiting and advising and not paper writing. More than half the month on the road, in Tasmania and on the South Island (again, not Cascade Saddle, but we did go on a boat in Doubtful Sound.)"

---

<style>
.post-heading h1  { color: cyan; text-shadow: 2px 2px 2px grey; }
.meta { color: cyan; }
</style>

OK, well, let's get started on this month's summary a bit earlier. This is easier since I'm in Wellington
right now and not on a trip. (It doesn't seem to imply that I finish the summary earlier, though, somehow; I went super long on the [South Island trip report](/post/20240607-chc-queenstown-doubtful-sound)).

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240611-may/2405-highlights" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Cheeky currawong that tried to steal food; Cradle Mountain; Barn Bluff; wombat; broad-toothed mouse; view from near Ben Lomond saddle; bottlenose dolphin; Buller's mollymawk.</figcaption>
</figure>

# COVID

[FluTracking](https://info.flutracking.net/reports/new-zealand-reports/)
now asks "Have you received your 7th dose?". There's a rumour that
COVID boosters will no longer be free in NZ for non-high-risk
people. Boo! A [recent study](https://medicine.wustl.edu/news/repeat-covid-19-vaccinations-elicit-antibodies-that-neutralize-variants-other-viruses/) shows that repeat COVID vaccinations broaden the immunity base, i.e. for this
pathogen, imprinting is positive.

[poops.nz](https://poops.nz) suggests that, overall, the NZ wave is cresting now.
Apparently [Ontario is discontinuing wastewater testing](https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/toronto/ontario-covid-19-wastewater-sewage-virus-monitoring-1.7224236), which is terrible.

There was some misinformation about masks. But it's true: [masks do work!](https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/national/517584/stricter-mask-use-could-reduce-the-spread-of-respiratory-infections-researchers) [[actual journal paper](https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/cmr.00124-23)]

# Professional

Didn't put pen to paper (keyboard) writing any research papers this month: the ones that were sent off
are under review, and the new ones aren't quite there yet (hopefully [SCAM](https://conf.researchr.org/home/scam-2024) in mid-June). Did work on the EDI part of the NSERC Discovery
resubmittal as well as internal RIF funding (NSERC booby prize).

There was also some mandatory cybersecurity training. It was pretty close to accurate, though pretty generic
("contact your manager": who?). I understand why they instituted the requirements, after last year's attack, but I didn't learn anything.
I chuckle at imagining my colleagues (e.g. Canada Research Chair in cybersecurity) doing this training.

Worked on 13 days. There are 22 work days in May. Definitely there was some vacation time there.

## Grad students/mentees/collaborators

I was talking to my students and collaborators on 9 days, which is
about normal, though a lot given how often I was away. My new grad students
are new but hopefully we're converging on actual research projects for them soon.

## Collegiality

Not too much. Checked revisions on the master's thesis, participated
in a PhD comprehensive exam. Refused to do a 4am PhD final exam; I'm on
sabbatical after all.

## Consulting

None this month. Our program design continues to move through committees.

# Trips

Once again. This time, beginning of month=Tasmania and end of month=South Island. I guess I stay in town in the middle of every month!

## Overland Track

Last month, I wrote about the pre-Overland Track days: flying via
Melbourne, and then to Hobart and Launceston. After I finish this
post, I will continue to write about the Overland Track experience
itself. The park documentation says that it can be "life-changing",
and maybe it wasn't that, but it was definitely a great walk. We went
straight back to Wellington the day after getting off the Overland
Track.

Here's the first part of the trip report that I posted last month:
* [Impressions of the Overland Track and comparison with NZ Great Walks](/post/20240511-overland-track-australia-vs-new-zealand)

and the highlight pictures from that report:
<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240511-overland-track-australia-vs-new-zealand/highlights" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">First navigational sign on the Overland (not DOC green!); view from Cradle Mountain; mountains in distance; Cathedral Mountain; Fergusson Falls; swingbridge (like NZ); end of our walk; MP and me; the boat out.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Not the Cascade Saddle again: Christchurch, Queenstown, and Doubtful Sound

* [Full report](/post/20240607-chc-queenstown-doubtful-sound)

We had moved our Cascade Saddle trip from March to May, but we thought the weather might be
questionable in May, so we moved it again to December. So, we had another week in Queenstown
where we could do more outdoors activities.

### Christchurch & Canterbury Open, May 17 to 19

On this trip, I first went to Christchurch (well, Lincoln) to referee at the
Canterbury Open, with a stop at [Uprising](https://bouldering.co.nz/), the bouldering gym, on the Friday.

MP came on Saturday and visited
[Willowbank](https://www.willowbank.co.nz/) again while I was reffing
the kids on Sunday. The Canterbury Open was pretty small this year and
I was back in Christchurch by noon on Sunday, exactly when MP made it
back from Willowbank. (She had some trouble getting there on the bus,
with delays and misconnects, and the Uber she eventually took was just
as long as it would've been from the hotel, oh well. Go figure.)

We wandered
around Christchurch some more (we stayed at centrally located Hotel Give, which
is nice), getting Bluff oysters at Cellar Door before taking the bus
to the airport and flying to Queenstown. The Air New Zealand CHC
lounge was good as usual.

### Queenstown outdoors, May 20 to 23

Our planned activities were Ben Lomond and riding bicycles around.
The weather forecast suggested that Tuesday would be a better day for Ben
Lomond, so we swapped the days, and Around the Basin was cool with that.

Biking from Queenstown to Gibbston was, according to MP, just pure Type 1
fun. Nothing sketchy at all. The 300m of elevation gain along the 45km was a bit harder for me,
even though the bike I'd rented was better than my usual commuter.
MP's ebike made things very easy for her. Anyway, there is really good off-track
bicycle infrastructure around Queenstown&mdash;the [Queenstown Trail](https://www.queenstowntrails.org.nz/)&mdash;and the routes along the rivers
are highly scenic.

These tourist businesses&mdash;Around the Basin, Tamaranui Canoe Hire&mdash;do have a lot of
infrastructure, and guys driving vans around a lot. It is definitely hard to avoid needing
to drive vans around when there is inadequate public transit. Moving canoes is hard anyway, but
moving bicycles shouldn't necessarily need so many vans.

Our chosen day turned out to be a beautiful day for a Ben Lomond hike. We left at
7:55, slightly before sunrise, given the 1400m of elevation gain and
short days. Back in town by 16:15, an hour before sunset and in time
to get to the airport to pick up the rental car by 17:00 (though [GO rentals](https://www.gorentals.co.nz/)
does do after-hours pickups and we actually had set ours up as one).

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240607-chc-queenstown-doubtful-sound/ben-lomond" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Skyline sign before dawn; hiking pole assembly; almost clear view of Ben Lomond summit; lake Wakatipu and track and slopes; many valleys (Moke Creek?); us on Ben Lomond summit.</figcaption>
</figure>

We brought ice axes and crampons but they didn't help and we gave up
on the crampons pretty soon. Some others before us thought they would
be needed and turned back, but they totally could have continued. The
dozen Nepalis just walked up the mountain very fast.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240607-chc-queenstown-doubtful-sound/ben-lomond-2" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Ben Lomond summit pic 2; snowy; NZ pipit on kea sign (35mm lens!); toilet and Lake Wakatipu; hill&nbsp;with cloud behind.</figcaption>
</figure>

### Welcome Rock, May 22 to 23

After that, we went to [Welcome Rock](https://www.welcomerock.co.nz/),
which is another easy and relatively flat, though long (25km), private
track. We did most of it on the first day, looping around the long way
to the [Slate
Hut](https://www.welcomerock.co.nz/accommodation/slate-hut/).  It's
impressive that the track was constructed with hand tools, though
there isn't the terrain of the Paparoa to contend with: there was only a small amount of rock moving to do.
I would be a bit worried about doing this track on a bicycle (kind of narrow at times), but it's well
graded for walking.

The scenery was epic, especially near sunrise/sunset. Since we were
walking until sunset, we did get to appreciate that scenery too.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240607-chc-queenstown-doubtful-sound/welcome-rock" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">At Welcome Rock trailhead; Eyre Peak (?); helicopter at work; not working wagon; clouds under us; snowy hills; snowy shaded; disconnected pipes; MP; gentle slope; one of 3 waterfalls; Mud Hut; inside Mud Hut; gently sloping landscape (again); moonrise; mound; MP; MP at Slate Hut; sunset; stars (Orion).</figcaption>
</figure>

On our way from Welcome Rock to Te Anau, we stopped in Garston for breakfast at
[The Coffee Bomb](https://www.facebook.com/THECOFFEEBOMB/), since we had decided to not
have breakfast at Slate Hut (didn't want to deal with water, gas, and cleaning). Highly recommended.
We had thought about going past Te Anau to walk the Lake Marian Track, but that would have been a
lot of driving. So, we did our laundry at the [Te Anau TOP 10 Holiday Park](https://teanautop10.co.nz/),
which was good to do before going on the boat for 3 days. We also stopped by the
[Punanga Manu o Te Anau / Te Anau Bird Sanctuary](https://www.doc.govt.nz/teanaubirdsanctuary) to see
more takahē as well as brown teal/pāteke (both at Zealandia, though I hadn't seen the male breeding plumage)
as well as the Antipodes Island parakeet (not at Zealandia; insurance population).

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240607-chc-queenstown-doubtful-sound/te-anau" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">MP with the takahē statue in Te Anau; pair of brown teals/pāteke; Antipodes Island parakeet; one of a half dozen takahē; starling (introduced); sparrow (introduced).</figcaption>
</figure>

### Doubtful Sound, two nights, May 24 to 26

I have a lot of photos from this cruise. It's going to take some time
to sort through them. I discovered that the 12mm lens is actually
pretty useful here, because one is often too close to the fjords. And
the 100-400 is indispensable for albatross pictures. But most of the time
I was using the fixed 35mm (on APS-C, so 52mm equivalent).

Skipper Dave (with an open-bridge policy, so I dropped in to say hi a
few times) arranged it so that we'd be out on the Tasman Sea around
sunset on both days.  You can definitely feel it when you're on the
open ocean. There were about 10 Buller's mollymawks, a few shags, and
a couple of bottlenose dolphin encounters.

There was a mix of people on the boat, with some pro photographers and
a handful of serious amateurs; mostly New Zealanders, I think, with
some Australians living in New Zealand, and some from overseas
(notably the US). There was a distribution of ages, too, though it
probably skewed older than the population average. May is not high
tourist season in NZ.

The first day was just motoring around to the Tasman Sea (way farther than
Crooked Arm, which is as far as one gets on a day trip), looking at the scenery and at the wildlife,
and then heading back to Christmas Cove (Precipice Cove on the map) to
moor for the night. We went through the Malaspina Reach and Thompson
Sound, for a total of 80km on the Fiordland Navigator.

Once we docked, Cesar and his kitchen staff had prepared one of our two
amazing dinners on the boat. The first day included mussels, beef, ceviche,
and tasty salads.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240607-chc-queenstown-doubtful-sound/doubtful-sound-1" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">On Lake Manapouri; Manapouri hydro station and infrastructure; my bunk; Navigator's ship's bell; underway on Doubtful Sound; Chamberlain Falls; some peaks; weird visual effect; shag; cliffs; bottlenose dolphin; Tasman Sea coastline (with bird).</figcaption>
</figure>

While Day 1 was bluebird, Day 2 was cloudy, and it had rained overnight,
so we got more waterfalls. But first, we paddled around Christmas Cove for
5km (or some people took the tender and got narration). There were seals and
there was a double rainbow. When we drove around to waterfalls, I found that
I was often too close for 35mm, but 12mm captures more of the walls. Also, there was
swimming. The water was cold.

Apart from that, we navigated around to Crooked Arm, Patea Passage and
the Tasman Sea, then behind the Shelter Islands for more albatross
spotting, and in to First Arm for the night. That is a total of 92km
on the day, plus 5km in a (not sit-on-top!) kayak.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240607-chc-queenstown-doubtful-sound/doubtful-sound-2" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Rooms below deck; MP paddling off; tree trunk; MP and rainbow; seal; MP and Navigator; furled jib and rainbow; mast and three falls; more falls in Crooked Arm; to the Tasman Sea again; underneath stormclouds; Buller's mollymawk; looking out; mollymawk.</figcaption>
</figure>

Our second and final dinner was delicious again, with slow-cooked meat
and a seafood mix, and of course salads.

On Day 3, we left before sunrise and motored over to Hall Arm (where the day cruise goes). We saw the day cruise sailing out
as we came in to Deep Cove, actually. All of the Real Journeys trips do a Sound of Silence in Hall Arm, so we did that,
and heard bellbirds and, I think, a kea. I'd also heard bellbirds on the kayaks.

Then we reversed the journey, back over Wilmot Pass Road and Lake Manapouri, taking us back to town at noon as
advertised.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240607-chc-queenstown-doubtful-sound/doubtful-sound-3" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Behind Elizabeth Island; Mount Troup; slab; entering Hall Arm; kayak landing/campsite; end of Hall Arm; on Lake Manapouri, dusting of snow towards Lake Norwest; back at Manipouri Village; Southern Alps from the air; Kaikouras.</figcaption>
</figure>

Two hours of driving later, we got to Queenstown, returned our car,
and took our flight back to Wellington without any
complications. Well, getting gas is always a bit annoying, but not a
huge complication. Arriving at 5pm it's easy to take the number 2
bus from WLG. Sometimes one can even transfer to the 21 and avoid the walk up
the hill.

## Travel planning

Some upcoming trips:
* Auckland: oops, I bought a plane ticket, but it's for the wrong weekend. The Auckland International Open is actually on a weekend where I'm in Melbourne.
* Melbourne/Cairns: It's not March 2020, so maybe we'll actually manage to have some time in Melbourne. But I also figured this is the time to see the Great Barrier Reef. So, weekends in Melbourne, and then to Cairns during the week.

# Movement statistics

Back from Australia and then one week in the South Island. There was a long hike (Overland Track) and a shorter tramp (Welcome Rock). Also had a longer-than-usual bike ride.

* 🚶 Walking: 194km on 27 days (near the top of the range)
* 🚲 Biking: 15km on 9 days (not while travelling)
* 🚗 Driving: 471km on 8 days (South Island)
* 🚗 Taxi: 16km (to HBA and from WLG) 
* 🚌 Bus: 313km on 9 days, including 177km of a shuttle from Lake St. Clair back to Hobart
* ✈ Plane: 4,577km (HBA-MEL-WLG, WLG-CHC-ZQN-WLG)
* 🚣 Boat: 307km (Lake St Clair ferry, Doubtful Sound/Lake Manapouri boats)
* 🚣 Kayak: 5.2km
* &#x1F6A1; Cable car: 0.7km (1×)

## Walks

* [Overland Track](https://parks.tas.gov.au/explore-our-parks/cradle-mountain/overland-track): side trips make this arbitrarily challenging, good people on the track when we were there
* (on a bike) Queenstown to Gibbston on the [Queenstown Trail Great Ride](https://queenstowntrails.org.nz/about-us/the-great-ride/): there is a lot of off-road infrastructure; it's recreation, not commuting infrastructure
* [Ben Lomond Track](https://www.doc.govt.nz/parks-and-recreation/places-to-go/otago/places/queenstown-area/things-to-do/ben-lomond-track/): Tiki Trail kind of annoying, first part of track super easy, second part almost as easy
* [Welcome Rock Track](https://www.welcomerock.co.nz/): well graded track, moved super fast on some parts, melty ground made things a bit soggier

# Pictures

* [May photos report](/post/20240601-may-photos)

Negative progress this month, but still did at least process some pictures. Running out of room for photos on my laptop again.

* Sets of pictures posted: 10 (3 on the last day)
* Total pictures posted: 365
* Total pictures in selection pool: 1635
* Accept rate: 22% (min 11%, max 50%)

As always, pictures are clickable to go to the full gallery. 

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240601-may-photos/highlights" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Paradise shelduck/pūtangitangi mama and chick (Zealandia); black-fronted dotterel (Launceston); moon near Crater Lake; through the window; night sky with tree and hut (Waterfall Valley); platypus near Windermere; tarn and Mount Pelion West; New Pelion Hut; newborn sheep baby (credit: MP; Willowbank Wildlife Reserve).</figcaption>
</figure>

# May posts

I'll reiterate that I posted a first part of an Overland Track report:
* [Impressions of the Overland Track and comparison with NZ Great Walks](/post/20240511-overland-track-australia-vs-new-zealand)

I figured I'd write this May report and have the first day of photos processed before writing more about the Overland. While writing this report I also got to writing the South Island report, which ended up being substantial (it was a substantial trip!).

# Miscellaneous

Let's say that I was in Wellington about half of this month when I wasn't away for the Overland or South Island trips.
I also got a (free) tetanus shot: probably a good idea after taking a boardwalk fall while running on the last
bit of the Overland Track.

## Acquisitions

* [Replacement Sea to Summit titanium spoon](https://seatosummit.com/products/frontier-ultralight-long-spoon)
* [Merino wool gloves](https://www.torpedo7.co.nz/products/T7MRG3V27AA/title/unisex-chunky-merino-gloves)

I was thinking that my thin [Arc'teryx Rho](https://www.outsidesports.co.nz/products/arcteryx-rho-gloves) gloves wouldn't cut it in the actual snow on Ben Lomond, so I got some
thicker gloves. I figured that wool would be lower environmental impact than plastic. And they were pretty cheap.

## Sports

I counted 17 away days in May, so making it to judo 5× is not bad. There was also refereeing at the Canterbury
Open, but that's not actually doing judo.

Climbing was 4× at Faultline and 1× at Uprising. Let's see what I can do in June with fewer planned away days.
Hard to say if I'm making progress with climbing.

## Restaurants

Hobart:
* [Bar Wa Izakaya](https://www.barwaizakaya.com/): highly endorse the "wallaby wings".

Christchurch:
* [Miss Saigon](https://fivelanes.co.nz/stores/miss-saigon/): super extroverted, upbeat owner and good pho.
* [Smash Palace](https://thesmashpalace.co.nz/): tasty burger, fries average.
* [Sampan House](https://www.sampanhouse.com/index.html): old-school Chinese restaurant (actually Cambodian), relatively affordable, had fried sampan noodle.
* [Number Six Bar & Bistro](https://hotelgive.nz/numbersix/): breakfast quiche was a good start to the day; doesn't come up on Google Maps under cafes, which makes it hard to find.
* [Hachi Hachi](https://hachihachi.co.nz/): "Japanese fusion", was not terrible but not awesome. It was fine.
* [Cellar Door](https://www.cellardoor.nz/): wine bar, way better Bluff oysters than the ones we had in Invercargill; also chicken liver parfait.

Gibbston:
* [Kinross](https://kinross.nz): ordered flavourful pork belly and venison, and of course wine (also brought some back to Wellington).

Queenstown:
* [Blue Kanu](https://www.bluekanu.co.nz/): medium fancy place in Queenstown, would go back.
* [The Exchange](https://theexchangecafe.kiwi/): I seem to have sausage rolls for breakfast in Queenstown often; typical specimen here.

Garston:
* Coffee Bomb: "paddock to plate", really tasty; I had "The Bomb", a pork belly sandwich.

Doubtful Sound:
* Fiordland Navigator: yummy food on-board.

Wellington:
* [Havana Bar & Restaurant](https://www.havanabar.co.nz/): was not our first choice but deserves to be one; yet another tapas-style menu, but good choices on the menu and well executed.
* Sri Penang: great new Malaysian place near MP's new work.


<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240611-may/food" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Pho from Miss Saigon; Bluff oysters from Cellar Door; wallaby wings from Bar Wa Izakaza; tuna tartare, croquettes, patatas brava from Havana; burger and fries from Smash Palace; sampan noodles from Sampan House; quiche from Number Six; fresh doughnuts in Lincoln; salmon bowl from Hachi Hachi; sandwich from Coffee Bomb; noodles from Sri Penang.</figcaption>
</figure>


## Volunteering

As-usual, remote volunteering. Also went to a Quarterly General Meeting
for the Wellington Judo Academy.

## Miscellaneous

I went to a talk by Dr Ian Griffin of the Otago Museum about aurora
hunting, hosted by the Royal Society Te Apārangi Wellington Branch,
the main Royal Society Te Apārangi, and the Wellington Astronomical
Society. Astrophysicists can, it turns out, become museum directors
and get a hobby aurora hunting. A few days later there was a lot of
solar activity but also clouds in Wellington. Oh well.

# Conclusion

Did some work, lots of travel in Australia and on the South Island.
Will do more work and less travel in June, the first month of winter.