---
layout:     post

title:      "April: Whanganui Journey, three papers submitted, and a trip to Tasmania"
date:       2024-06-03
author:     "Patrick Lam"
tags:       ["retrospective"]
categories: ["work", "travel"]
published:  false
image:      "/img/20240520-april/08843_kangaroo_party.webp"
showtoc:    true
summary:    "Another new place: Tasmania (recommended!). Between the two trips, I did a bunch of work, which I hope will pay off: three paper submissions. Just life as usual."

---

<style>
.post-heading h1  { color: cyan; text-shadow: 2px 2px 2px grey; }
.meta { color: cyan; }
</style>

OK, well, let's get started on this month's summary a bit earlier. This is easier since I'm in Wellington
right now and not on a trip.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240603-may/highlights" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Canoe on the Whanganui; leaving Whakahoro; four goats; kayaking a small rapid; School Strike for Climate in Wellington; Upper Hutt judo; brown teal/pāteke at Zealandia; kookaburra at Warrandyte State Park; FARO and Unseen Seen at MONA; black-fronted dotterel at Islands.</figcaption>
</figure>

# COVID

[FluTracking](https://info.flutracking.net/reports/new-zealand-reports/)
now asks "Have you received your 7th dose?". There's a rumour that
COVID boosters will no longer be free in NZ for non-high-risk
people. Boo! A [recent study](https://medicine.wustl.edu/news/repeat-covid-19-vaccinations-elicit-antibodies-that-neutralize-variants-other-viruses/) shows that repeat COVID vaccinations broaden the immunity base, i.e. for this
pathogen, imprinting is positive.

[poops.nz](https://poops.nz) suggests that, overall, the wave is cresting now. I heard that
Ontario is discontinuing wastewater testing, which is terrible.

There was some misinformation about masks. It's true. [Masks work!](https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/national/517584/stricter-mask-use-could-reduce-the-spread-of-respiratory-infections-researchers) [actual journal paper](https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/cmr.00124-23)

# Professional



need new

Resubmitted two papers, to ECOOP and OOPSLA, and sent a new paper to Onward!.
I think Onward! is actually a strong fit for that paper. I'm not so sure about ECOOP, but we'll
see, I guess; we've tried SE venues for that work and it didn't get in. I also saw similar work
get rejected from PLDI. I'd say that I did a lot of work this month.

It was strange that ECOOP did artifact evaluation concurrently with paper review.
Unfortunately we forgot to hit the "submit" button on our ECOOP artifact.

Quantitatively, worked on 21 days. There are 22 work days in April.

## Grad students/mentees/collaborators

need new

I was talking to my students and collaborators on 13 days, which is
on the high side. Plus 1 chat with a prospective student (who I am not taking).

## Collegiality

need new

Two early-morning PhD comprehensive exams (ugh) and a master's
presentation.  Everyone did fine, even me. I do take a few minutes to
prepare for the exams the day before, and the master's is a day of
reading earlier in the week. Scanned written comments and sent them to
the student.

Also some freelance undergrad advising about how to get into research
and reviewed a course outline for a colleague. (A great thing about
Waterloo from an instructor's point of view is that you don't *have* to
have your outlines reviewed, although maybe the students would benefit).

## Consulting

None this month. Our program design continues to move through committees.

# Trips

Once again, beginning of month and end of month. I guess I stay in town in the middle of every month!

## Overland Track

Last month, I wrote about the pre-Overland Track days: flying via
Melbourne, and then to Hobart and Launceston. After I finish this
post, I will continue to write about the Overland Track experience
itself. The park documentation says that it can be "life-changing",
and maybe it wasn't that, but it was definitely a great walk. We went
straight back to Wellington the day after getting off the Overland
Track.

## Not the Cascade Saddle again: Christchurch, Queenstown, and Doubtful Sound



## Travel planning

Some upcoming trips:
* Auckland: oops, I bought a ticket, but it's for the wrong weekend. The Auckland International Open is actually on the weekend where I'm in Melbourne.
* Melbourne/Cairns: It's not March 2020, so maybe we'll actually manage to have some time in Melbourne. But I also figured this is the time to see the Great Barrier Reef. So, weekends in Melbourne, and then to Cairns during the week.

# Movement statistics

Back from Australia and then one week in the South Island. There was a long hike (Overland Track) and a shorter tramp (Welcome Rock). Also had a longer-than-usual bike ride.

* 🚶 Walking: 194km on 27 days (near the top of the range)
* 🚲 Biking: 15km on 9 days (not while travelling)
* 🚗 Driving: 471km on 8 days (South Island)
* 🚗 Taxi: 16km (to HBA and from WLG) 
* 🚌 Bus: 313km on 9 days, including 177km of a shuttle from Lake St. Clair back to Hobart
* ✈ Plane: 4,577km (HBA-MEL-WLG, WLG-CHC-ZQN-WLG)
* 🚣 Boat: 307km (Lake St Clair ferry, Doubtful Sound/Lake Manapouri boats)
* 🚣 Kayak: 5.2km
* &#x1F6A1; Cable car: 0.7km (1×)

## Walks

* [Overland Track](https://parks.tas.gov.au/explore-our-parks/cradle-mountain/overland-track): side trips make this arbitrarily challenging, good people on the track when we were there
* (on a bike) Queenstown to Gibbston on the [Queenstown Trail Great Ride](https://queenstowntrails.org.nz/about-us/the-great-ride/): there is a lot of off-road infrastructure; it's recreation, not commuting infrastructure
* [Ben Lomond Track](https://www.doc.govt.nz/parks-and-recreation/places-to-go/otago/places/queenstown-area/things-to-do/ben-lomond-track/): Tiki Trail kind of annoying, first part of track super easy, second part almost as easy
* [Welcome Rock Track](https://www.welcomerock.co.nz/): well graded track, moved super fast on some parts, melty ground made things a bit soggier

# Pictures

* [May photos report](/post/20240601-may-photos)

Negative progress this month, but still did at least process some pictures.

* Sets of pictures posted: 10 (3 on the last day)
* Total pictures posted: 365
* Total pictures in selection pool: 1635
* Accept rate: 22% (min 11%, max 50%)

As always, pictures are clickable to go to the full gallery. 

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240601-may-photos/highlights" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Paradise shelduck/pūtangitangi mama and chick (Zealandia); black-fronted dotterel (Launceston); moon near Crater Lake; through the window; night sky with tree and hut (Waterfall Valley); platypus near Windermere; tarn and Mount Pelion West; New Pelion Hut; newborn sheep baby (credit: MP; Willowbank Wildlife Reserve).</figcaption>
</figure>

# May posts

I posted a first part of an Overland Track report:
* [Impressions of the Overland Track and comparison with NZ Great Walks](/post/20240511-overland-track-australia-vs-new-zealand)

I figured I'd write this May report and have the first day of photos processed before writing more about the Overland.

# Miscellaneous

Let's say that I was in Wellington about half of this month when I wasn't away for the Overland or South Island trips. 

## Acquisitions

* [Replacement Sea to Summit titanium spoon](https://seatosummit.com/products/frontier-ultralight-long-spoon)
* [Merino wool gloves](https://www.torpedo7.co.nz/products/T7MRG3V27AA/title/unisex-chunky-merino-gloves)

I was thinking that my thin Arc'teryx gloves wouldn't cut it in the actual snow on Ben Lomond, so I got some
thicker gloves. I figured that wool would be lower environmental impact than plastic. And they were pretty cheap.

## Sports

I counted 17 away days in May, so making it to judo 5× is not bad. There was also refereeing at the Canterbury
Open, but that's not actually doing judo.

Climbing was 4× at Faultline and 1× at Uprising. Let's see what I can do in June with fewer planned away days.
Hard to say if I'm making progress with climbing.

## Restaurants

to do

Christchurch:

* [Number Six Bar & Bistro](https://hotelgive.nz/numbersix/): breakfast quiche was a good start to the day; doesn't come up on Google Maps under cafes, which makes it hard to find.
* [Cellar Door](https://www.cellardoor.nz/)
* [Sampan House](https://www.sampanhouse.com/index.html)
* [Hachi Hachi](https://hachihachi.co.nz/)

Garston:
* Coffee Bomb: "paddock to plate", really tasty; I had "The Bomb", a pork belly sandwich.


<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20240520-april/food-oz" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Second breakfast on Air NZ service to Melbourne; kinda tasteless Mobo Moga banh mi; in-flight snack on Qantas, MEL-HBA; eggplant, croquette, and sushi at Suminato; quiche at Daci & Daci; remains of a scallop pie on MONA ROMA; tagine from Dubsy's; banh mi at Banh Mi 'N Grill in Hobart; sushi, tempura, and sushi at Suminato; enormous chicken parm at Alchemy; pho from Noodles n Rolls-tastic.</figcaption>
</figure>


## Volunteering

need new

The usual. Beaver Valley Climbing Festival is taking shape with the
OAC, which is great. I wonder if the Scout group is less cohesive
because there are no regular Group-level in-person meetings. Also
helped revise a Judo Ontario refereeing exam.

## Miscellaneous

I went to a talk by Dr Ian Griffin of the Otago Museum about aurora
hunting, hosted by the Royal Society Te Apārangi Wellington Branch,
the main Royal Society Te Apārangi, and the Wellington Astronomical
Society. Astrophysicists can, it turns out, become museum directors
and get a hobby aurora hunting. A few days later there was a lot of
solar activity but also clouds in Wellington. Oh well.


# Conclusion

Productive month in terms of both submissions and travel. We'll see how
that goes.
