---
layout:     post

title:      "January: a month of teaching three courses, and two trips"
date:       2025-02-05
author:     "Patrick Lam"
tags:       ["retrospective"]
categories: ["work", "travel"]
image:      "/img/20250205-january/20250125_143014461_more_pink_sky_over_fieldhouse_v1.avif"
showtoc:    true
summary:    "Well, that was a whole month. Arrived in Canada on January 6. Teaching ECE 459×2 and SE 465, and had two weekend trips the next two weekends. A bit less busy now."

---

<style>
.post-heading h1  { color: white; background-color: #aaa; background-color: rgba(192,192,192,0.8); padding: 0.5em; text-shadow: 2px 2px 2px grey; }
.meta { color: white; background-color: #aaa; background-color: rgba(192,192,192,0.8); padding: 0.5em; color: yellow; text-shadow: 2px 2px 2px grey; }
</style>

Let's see if I can write this one quickly (clearly it's not going to include the Tahiti trip report). Except for Tahiti, I had two trips:
one to retrieve my car (and referee the Coupe Gadbois) and one to Regina (to referee the Saskatchewan Open). And then I had 3 courses, so between 9
and 10.5 hours of lecture per week. Mondays, with 4.5 hours of lecture, are always rough, but at least then that's roughly half of my weekly teaching.
Wednesdays have 4.5 hours of lecture three times a term. (Week 7 is midterm week, with no lectures, so we have 3-4 lectures throughout the term to make up
for these, also allowing classes to potentially finish earlier).

{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250205-january/2501-highlights" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Tahiti ocean view; rainbow over Tahiti; grey-green fruit dove; ippon at Saskatchewan Open; Montreal's Olympic Stadium.</figcaption>
</figure>

# COVID

No personal experience with COVID this month. Have been using the
nasal spray, though not masking in lecture. Then again, when 6
students come, and the CO<sub>2</sub> is around 600, the risk is
pretty minimal.

The nasal spray I use, [FLO Travel Nasal
Spray](https://www.chemistwarehouse.co.nz/buy/78707/flo-travel-nasal-spray-20ml),
doesn't seem to be available in Canada, but I should have a supply for
the next while (and am supplementing it with additional supply brought
from NZ by MP). It's iota-carrageenan. There is a product with the
same active ingredient listed on some sites in Canada, but always out
of stock. On a similar note, this could potentially work better if it passes the
relevant studies. Which we really would like governments to fund, and agencies to approve.

* [Japanese researchers develop peptide preventing COVID-19 infections](https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2025/01/23/japan/science-health/peptide-prevention-covid-19/)

OK, so I don't believe that infectious diseases inevitably mutate to
become milder. Talk to anyone who had polio about that.  But also
there is the fact that while COVID infections aren't that much lower
than before, the hospitalization rate is indeed lower.  Here's
something from the BBC about it.

* [Why COVID-19 is becoming less deadly](https://www.bbc.com/future/article/20250113-why-covid-19-is-becoming-less-deadly)

Indeed,

> Chin-Hong says the vast majority of people will either be asymptomatic or experience a cold so mild that some might well mistake it for a seasonal allergy, such as a pollen complaint.

was pretty consistent with my experience in December. And the article
points out that Long COVID is still a thing (though [also
dropping](https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa2403211) yet
still substantial per a NEJM article). We still don't really
understand it.

Vaccine development continues.

* [More intranasal vaccines start testing in Europe; other vaccines in Canada and other countries](https://absolutelymaybe.plos.org/2025/01/31/another-intranasal-covid-vaccine-trial-more-good-news-update-25/)

# Professional

The main professional thing in January was teaching three courses
(which continue for another two months).  We also submitted our TOPLAS
revision mid-month. I had (in-person) meetings with my grad students
and we're making progress towards some submissions, though not
soon. Also kept up my Professional Engineers Ontario licensing with
their continuing education online courses (not the worst, but also far
from the best).

## Grad students/mentees/collaborators

Yep, now meeting grad students in person, with meetings on 8 days. Also
some SIGPLAN-M mentees. Calls with collaborators at the beginning of
January to finalize TOPLAS.

## Collegiality/Service

I joined a FAUW governance reform working group; we have meetings for that
every two weeks. I got another TOSEM submission to review. I told them
that I'd do it during reading week. There are some things that are
piling up that I really ought to get to, though the other things are
non-job-related.

It's not quite collegiality or service, but I also contributed
profQUOTES and profTHOUGHTS to [mathNEWS
157-2](https://mathnews.uwaterloo.ca/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/mathNEWS-157-2.pdf).
I should post that to this blog as well.

I did a Walks as a Service with a 4th year student and went to a
Sustainable Transportation event on campus. I also went to the
Engineering Faculty and Staff Award dinner, though there weren't any
awards for me.

# Trips

French Polynesia, Montreal, Regina. One of these places was warmer than the others!

## French Polynesia

Trip report if time permits, but I have a lot of other demands on my time as well. It was a nice trip! Much warmer than Canada in January.

* [Gallery: PPT to WLG, January 3](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/2035)

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250205-january/tahiti" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Tahiti terraces; tropical flower; O Belvédère; model boat at museum; picnic area at Vai'pahi water gardens; view of the atoll; PPT.</figcaption>
</figure>

Also some birds.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250205-january/tahiti-birbs" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Chestnut-breasted munia; white-tailed tropicbird; common waxbill; cat.</figcaption>
</figure>


## Montreal, January 17&ndash;19

I'd left my car in Montreal, and it is sometimes useful to have a car
to leave Waterloo, so I wanted to pick it up.  Turns out the Coupe
Gadbois judo tournament was scheduled for this weekend, which was two
weeks after coming back to Canada.  I got an Aeroplan redemption for
Toronto-Montreal (strangely, premium economy was actually cheaper than
economy) for 4pm.  To catch that flight, I ended class 20 minutes
early at 14:00, took the taxi to YYZ, received a text about boarding
starting at 15:14, arrived at 15:22, and was at the gate at 15:29, after a
quick trip into the Air Canada Café to pick up a wrap. The German guy
next to me on the plane was looking at climbing pictures on his phone,
but didn't seem keen to talk. On the other end, I arrived at YUL at
17:28, took the bus, and got to the referee clinic a few minutes late
(though I dialed into it too). I was hoping they would talk about
their impressions of the new rules, but they didn't.

* [Gallery: Car retrieval and Coupe Gadbois, January 17](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/2033)

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250205-january/gadbois" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">From the taxi to YYZ; onwards to boarding gate; arriving in Montréal; competition area.</figcaption>
</figure>

Not much to say about the tournament. It's nice to referee in Québec,
though there is also turnover from pre-2020. Two full days of
refereeing, starting at 8 and ending at 17:45 each day. Had some
poutine on Friday and dinner at my parents' house on Saturday, though
the parents weren't that talkative with me either. They were talking to each other
at 5am though.  When I was trying to sleep.

There was no plane to catch on Sunday since I was taking my car
back. I left the Centre Pierre-Charbonneau at 5:40 and arrived in
Waterloo at 1AM with a stop at the IGA to get some snacks and then at
one of the A&Ws in Kingston to get a burger for supper. The power
steering was broken but I managed. Easier on the highway without a lot of turns.

At least it's not too bad to get in at 1am if teaching the next day is
at 1pm.  Sitting in the car for 7 hours is not the most comfortable
for my back.

## Regina(ish), January 24&ndash;26

Five days later it was time to go to the Sask Open in Regina (new
airport YQR!)  There is this Landline service contracted by Air Canada
to "fly" you from Kitchener airport YKF to YYZ. For now, they are
adding YKF-YYZ segments to your flights for free, as long as your trip
is all on Air Canada. So I thought I'd give that service a try.

There are two flights a day to Regina. One is at 12:25, and the other is at 21:10.
I didn't feel like cancelling class to take the 12:25, so it was 21:10.
I thought I would like get to YYZ early and so I requested the 15:35 bus
rather than the 17:35 bus. That would give me 4 hours at YYZ. There is
supposedly a 30 minute check-in deadline at YKF, but they didn't seem too
hung up on that, and there was someone with some sort of problem ahead of me
in line that took a while to resolve. I'm not sure I really even needed to
physically check in; I had an online boarding pass. I did want the paper Air Canada YKF boarding pass for fun though.

There are a couple of ways to get to YKF. You could conceivably walk
or bike.  I've thought about that, even in winter, but I definitely
wouldn't do it at night. There is GRT city bus service, but it takes a
while (an hour if you're lucky). Looking through the pictures, there
is also GRT flexbus service (at limited times), so I'll try that next time. There's also
taxis. I drove my car, with the broken power steering, and parked it
for $20/day ($60 total).

The bus seems to get at least half a dozen passengers. I'm not sure if
it really is more convenient than driving to YYZ. My drive to YKF is
just 20 minutes, which is much better than driving on the 401, which
is broken at random times; taking the bus protects you from traffic-caused misconnections.
It's not that much cheaper in total, though that depends on the
choices that you make for parking or taxi. It's slower; the bus took
an hour but then you have to get to YKF earlier and then you have the
connection. They do enforce a minimum connection time at YYZ.

* [Gallery: Getting to Regina and in Regina, January 24&ndash;25](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/2031)
* [Gallery: Leaving Regina and snow on the Prairies, January 26](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/2030)


<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250205-january/regina-1" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">AC 2510: a bus; trying to check in; HOV lane on the 401; tight quarters on AC Rouge; at YQR; room at Pajo House.</figcaption>
</figure>


During my 4.5-hour connection at YYZ, I spent some time in the Air Canada Café, then went to the
lounge, and then back to the Café. Probably I eat more than I should
in the lounge.

It looks like Air Canada swaps the service to YQR between mainline
and Rouge pretty often. Unfortunately our flight to YQR was on a Rouge
plane. Even 13A was quite cramped and I didn't have much room to operate
my computer and write trip reports.

Got a lift from one of the Regina-based referees to my airbnb in Regina. Regina is small: the airport is
just a 6 minute drive away from the centre, and I walked 10 minutes to
the tournament site in the morning. It was below -10C, which maybe you can see in the pictures.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250205-january/regina-2" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Parking lot in the morning in Regina; dawn at 8:30am; match is over; again out before dawn.</figcaption>
</figure>

Usually there is a pretty carb-y breakfast at tournaments, so,
inspired by Québec referee Maxime, I sometimes just get fast food. In
this case it was Burger King.  There really wasn't anything else
available within a reasonable distance open early enough. Turns out we
started later than planned due to kata, so I could have actually had
proper breakfast. Oh well. The tournament then ran to 19:00 on
Saturday. There was definitely a lot of judo to referee; it'll be the
last tournament for me under the old rules.

Sunday started a lot earlier and we finished at 14:55, at which point
I got another ride to the airport and sat in the lounge for 15 minutes
before boarding. There was a bit of a line for security despite there
being not that many flights departing YQR, but NEXUS got me to the head
of the line.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250205-january/regina-3" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">More legroom on mainline A321-200; pinkish sky at 4pm; a farm; Prairie valley.</figcaption>
</figure>

Literally the only things I saw in Regina were the city skyline, the
airport, the Burger King, the airbnb, and the place they took us to
dinner, Leicester Family Restaurant (which was fine).

## Travel Planning

I'd planned the Montreal and Regina trips before January. There was
a bit of Japan planning left, as well as checking what I plan to bring there.
I also added a YKF segment to the Japan return. The outbound would cost $190 because of the
Japan Airlines segment. Not worth it. Flixbus is $30.

# Movement statistics

Walking was pretty minimal, being in Waterloo, where I mostly bike
around; a bit less than in January 2023 when I was in Waterloo
(excluding the Around the Mountain Circuit). Biking double compared to
January 2023.  "Only" eight flight segments (crossing the Pacific one
and a half times), plus two "flight" segments that were actually
buses YKF-YYZ-YKF.

Movement statistics:
* 🚶 Walking: 62km on 18 days
* 🚲 Biking: 163km on 20 days
* 🚗 Driving: 777km on 6 days (Tahiti, Montréal-Waterloo, Regina)
* 🚗 Taxi: 186km on 4 days (two YYZ-Waterloo trips, once to PPT, once to WLG)
* 🚌 Bus: 187km on 5 days (once from WLG, once from YUL, to/from YYZ)
* 🚇 Metro: 12km on 2 days (Montréal)
* 🚆 LRT: 14km on 2 days (Waterloo)
* ✈ Plane: 24412km on 6 days (PPT-AKL-WLG, WLG-AKL-YVR-YYZ, YYZ-YUL, YYZ-YQR, YQR-YYZ)

## Walks

Only as part of the Tahiti trip.

* Up to [O Belvédère](https://www.o-belvedere.com/) in Tahiti.
* [Grand Circuit at Water Gardens of Vaipahi](https://www.tahiti-rando.fr/rando-tahiti-jardins-vaipahi-en.php)

# Pictures

* [January photos post](/post/20250201-january-photos)

If you think I didn't process many photos in December, try January! Between teaching 3 courses and 3 trips, I really didn't have much time. But, we're now at the 4-day hike in January 2023, and then the next real set I have is August 2023. There is also a ski trip that I should write a trip report for, maybe.

Processed 7 sets and added 3 (and a couple more stranded pictures that I should pull off devices).

[Picture
logs](https://www.github.com/patricklam/picture-processing-logs) still
available. As always, pictures are clickable to go to the full gallery. 

* Sets of pictures posted: 7 (December: 18)
* Total pictures posted: 415 (652)
* Total pictures in selection pool: 1357 (2542)
* Accept rate: 31% (min 18%, max 48%) (26%)

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250201-january-photos/highlights" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Alpine grasshopper (sigaus australis); Crucible Lake; waterfalls near Siberia Hut; Holly Hut and maunga; Commander Peak; taiko at Harbourside Market; Wellington South coast.</figcaption>
</figure>

# January posts

One submission to a NZ consultation about yet another bad bill, and one trip report. I really should post my mathNEWS piece.
* [An extremely smooth travel day](/post/20240118-extremely-smooth-travel-day)
* [Submission on the (also terrible) Regulatory Standards Bill](/post/20250108-submission-regulatory-standards-bill)

# Miscellaneous

I guess I was in Wellington for 22 hours 10 minutes in January. Mostly I was in Ontario.

## Acquisitions

January felt pretty spendy, but I was mostly replacing things that were broken.
* glasses (I hate glasses)
* [Pixel 8a](https://store.google.com/product/pixel_8a) with [Otterbox Commuter Series Case](https://www.otterbox.com/en-us/slim-pixel-8a-case-black/77-95300.html)
* [1Mii Bluetooth 5.3 Transmitter Receiver](https://www.amazon.ca/dp/B0CSNHJ76P): didn't quite work for my use case (earbuds) but may be otherwise useful still
* another 2 [Logitech Ergo M575S trackballs](https://www.amazon.ca/dp/B0BBPFCXSZ?)
* replacement [Celestron Nature 10x25 monocular](https://www.amazon.ca/dp/B004KMA19Y) after my previous one has water inside that doesn't seem to want to leave
* yet another [phone stand](https://www.amazon.ca/dp/B0744DM3Y3) which seems to work well enough

There was also a lot of life maintenance.
* dentist
* bike repair 2× (all cables replacement $122, bottom bracket and bearing repacking $45, flat tire $28) = total $195
* car repair (power steering) $472

## Sports

Made it to judo practice 3×. I had availability for judo in the third week of January, but did something to my back again,
as I had in January 2024. It was much less severe this time though. Climbing at Grand River Rocks 4× plus a visit to the UW climbing
gym, though that was really in support of the Scouts going there. Less than I'd like, but well, there's more teaching than I'd like.

## Food

Extremely small number of new restaurants in January 2025 (and also not many old restaurants either).

### Tahiti
* Roulotte Anita: like everywhere else, huge and tasty portions, but also great views at sunset! The crab salad was in large part potato salad with a bit of crab.
* [O Belvédère](https://www.o-belvedere.com/): looks good, but they were closed for a private party which got cancelled due to the rain, but they still served us drinks and gave me a free banana.

### Waterloo
* [Slap Burgers](https://www.slapburgers.ca): yeah, it's burgers, though indeed pretty tasty. In the plaza next to campus.

### Regina
* [Leicester Family Restaurant & Lounge](https://www.leicesterregina.com/): the donair calzone was fine; they had a menu with lots of options for a Western restaurant.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250205-january/food" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Banana at O Belvédère; meat on a stick, salad, and fries from Roulotte Anita; Slap Burgers; donair calzone at Leicester Family Restaurant & Lounge.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Volunteering

I actually had an in-person meeting for the Scouts Group Committee, which is actually better. OAC Board still meets virtually. We also did planning for a clinic that we held on February 6 in Toronto
(and also in Ottawa in mid-March). There was also the two refereeing trips to Montréal and Regina.

# Conclusion

Made it through the first month of Winter term, whew. Even managed to do some extracurricular activities, though less sports than ideal. 