---
layout:     post

title:      "December: Last month of sabbatical and two trips"
date:       2025-01-29
author:     "Patrick Lam"
tags:       ["retrospective"]
categories: ["work", "travel"]
published:  true
image:      "/img/20250129-december/00836_plage_taahiamanu.avif"
showtoc:    true
summary:    "Back on the move, with a trip to the South Island and a trip to the Pacific Islands (French Polynesia), before returning to Canada to teach in the Winter 2025 semester."

---

<style>
.post-heading h1  { color: white; background-color: #aaa; background-color: rgba(192,192,192,0.8); padding: 0.5em; text-shadow: 2px 2px 2px grey; }
.meta { color: white; background-color: #aaa; background-color: rgba(192,192,192,0.8); padding: 0.5em; color: yellow; text-shadow: 2px 2px 2px grey; }
</style>

I started writing this when I was on the plane over the Pacific Ocean
back to Vancouver and then Toronto/Waterloo in time for teaching in
Winter 2025. Visited an old place (Mount Aspiring National Park,
Wānaka, Queenstown) and a new place (Tahiti and Moorea in French
Polynesia) in December. We'll see how Winter 2025 goes with the
excessive teaching load (3 courses).

...

Welp, it's going, and I sure didn't have time to write my December
report.  A race to the end of January.

{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250129-december/2412-highlights" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Hole in the Wall at Cook's Cove; little spotted kiwi at Zealandia; tuna eel; view of the West Matukituki Valley from along the Cascade Saddle Route; kakaruai/S Island robin; rainbow over the Remarkables; a hunting great crested tern; Blue Moon butterfly; Papeete market.</figcaption>
</figure>

# COVID

Whoops, MP brought home a case of COVID (presumably from work) just as
we were going to walk the Southern Crossing of the Tararuas. Yes,
there was indeed a wave in New Zealand at the beginning of December.
She reported that it only felt like proper COVID for one day. I tried
to dodge it by staying away from home for two nights (one night at a
Quest serviced apartment and one night at a cabin in a holiday park)
but tested weak positive on the third day. Then it went away the next
day and came back as a weak positive again the day after. Then
nothing.  I was spraying with the iota-carrageenan nasal spray
consistently. Maybe that, in combination with my two-month-old vaccine
dose, helped.  Anyway, I wouldn't really have even suspected COVID
except that MP reported it.

Looks like cases of respiratory illnesses in the US were increasing
again at the start of January, including COVID. No clue what's going
on in Canada. There is a guy sniffling somewhere near me on this
plane.

Here's the usual link to the Absolutely Maybe post for December:

* [Self-amplifying mRNA vaccine approved in Europe](https://absolutelymaybe.plos.org/2024/12/31/authorization-milestone-for-first-nextgen-covid-vaccine-in-europe-and-more-news-update-24/)

# Professional

TOPLAS and teaching, for the most part, in addition to usual weekly
meetings with grad students. Also talked to prospective grad students.
I was unable to work, for the most part, when I was on the Cascade
Saddle attempt, because I wasn't going to bring a computer on a 4 day walk.
I worked on 17 days, with 15 workdays in December for Waterloo (not counting
the period between Christmas and New Year's).

## Grad students/mentees/collaborators

Just like in November, had video calls with grad students/potential
students/mentees/collaborators on 9 days.

## Collegiality/Service

The main thing was serving on a PhD comprehensive exam committee. I also wrote one reference letter.

# Trips

## Gisborne

Was last month ([trip report](/post/20241205-gisborne), but here's two more pictures from December.

{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250129-december/gisborne" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Sheep looking out; Captain Cook statue in Gisborne.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Southern Crossing

Bailed due to COVID. Better luck next year?

## Wellington

{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250129-december/wellington" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Small tuatara (super active at night!); yearly taiko exhibition at Harbourside Market; December pōhutukawa in Wellington; poppy rose at the Botanic Garden.</figcaption>
</figure>

Not a trip, but we went on a [Zealandia night
tour](https://www.visitzealandia.com/zealandiabynight) and I sort of
got a kiwi picture. The tour was the day before the Zealandia AGM,
which I attended&mdash;this year's guest was the Rt. Hon Helen Clark,
who drew less of a crowd than James Cameron. Also there was the yearly
taiko drumming at Harbourside Market.

While trying to dodge Covid, I stayed at a Quest in the CBD (Johnston
St) which was nice. The next night I went to a holiday park in Hutt
Valley, which wasn't quite as nice, but was cheaper.

## Cascade Saddle attempt, December 19&ndash;24

Our third try at the Cascade Saddle. First try was canned due to
COVID. Second try was in May which is a bit late in the season and the
bridges are not there anymore.

{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250129-december/cascade-saddle" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Snowy patches on peaks; branch and valley; tree flute lichen; falls; more falls; this year's Wānaka&nbsp;grebe.</figcaption>
</figure>

The weather window was iffy. We tried to start a day earlier to beat
some low clouds (i.e. white-out).  Our flight to Queenstown (via
Christchurch) arrived at 9pm, which meant that we got to Aspiring Hut
at 2am. It consistently takes us 2.5 hours to walk to the hut. I
decided to sleep on the bench outside, which was perhaps more
comfortable than MP's experience sleeping inside. I think there was a
loud snorer.  But at 5:30am people were up. As were the sandflies.

I was using a SilTarp to keep dew off my sleeping bag, but during the
night it disappeared. I found it again underneath the hut. Should
probably tie it to something.

We left the hut at 8am and started walking up the saddle. Probably the
cloud level was 1500m and the saddle tops out at 1750m. We turned back
a bit short of the clouds. I think we could have done it anyway,
though we would have missed out on the views from higher than 1500m. I
saw a couple of kea flying, a titipounamu, and two South Island
robins.  We got back to Aspiring Hut 6 hours later and then walked to
Raspberry Creek, so a 8.5 hour walking day with 15km that day and 9km
not very many hours before that ("yesterday").  We got a ride back to
Wānaka with two brothers from North Carolina who had family in NZ. I
booked a room at the Brownston Hostel while in the car back to
Wānaka. It was OK, though not fancy, but also not cheap (C$150).

We then had 4 more days in Wānaka/Queenstown; maybe on the last day we
could have gotten up the saddle, but then we had flights to catch, and
that wouldn't have left any time to get back.

{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250129-december/cascade-saddle-2" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Hāwea Flat Whitewater Park; made it to Lake Hāwea; the lake; dunnock; Historic Dam at Queenstown; rainbow over the Remarkables; Remarkables; Taranaki maunga.</figcaption>
</figure>

We rented mountain bikes on one day and I made it to Lake Hawea.  On
the day before that we had walked part of the way towards there, to
Beacon Point.  I think the riding around Queenstown is nicer than around Wānaka.

We bought a bunch of things in Queenstown, including flights to Japan,
but also pants (I need more pants), T-shirts, and other gear.

Also, about Frankton. The drive from Frankton to Queenstown is short,
but can take half an hour in traffic.  If only there were more buses
or trains or something.  Frankton is like they reproduced all the
stores in central Queenstown, but in an easier-to-drive-to place, more
accessible to the airport. Kind of like dix30 in Brossard. But
Frankton's not on the lake. Was good for us to not have to get into
Queenstown itself though.

We also went to the climbing gym in Queenstown. The routesetting is
suboptimal: routes are far too reachy.

I think that it really takes a 2 week trip to Wānaka to have decent
odds of pulling off this trip. Then there should be a weather window
sometime.  Perhaps just camping out until leaving for the
tramp. Fourth try lucky?

## French Polynesia, December 25&ndash;January 3

Maybe I'll try to summarize that trip in the January report. Let's
just put a few pictures.

{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250129-december/pyf" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Chestnut breasted munia; red junglefowl; cairn; swing at the 3 Pines lookout; mouse; copper-tailed skink; fare; spot the skinks; azure-tailed skink.</figcaption>
</figure>

tl;dw: Went to Moorea for a bunch of days in December, and then a few days in Tahiti just at the end of December and early January. Snorkelling and hiking.

{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250129-december/pyf-2" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Moorea peak; bunch of spinner dolphins; overwater bungalows; palm trees; silvereye; azure-tailed skink egg; beach; sorting coffee beans in Tahiti; sunset.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Travel Planning

We did do some planning for the scrubbed Southern Crossing trip and
had even gotten as far as packing for it. We also did just-in-time
planning for the Cascade Saddle trip and for French Polynesia. We did
just a bit of planning for the Japan trip, notably buying plane
tickets.

# Movement statistics

Decent number of flight segments, including one international segment.

And the usual movement statistics:
* 🚶 Walking: 136.4km on 27 days (summer in Aotearoa, some hikes)
* 🚲 Biking: 121.56km on 10 days, including from Wānaka to Lake Hāwea, and a ride to Island Bay to buy fins for snorkeling.
* 🚗 Driving: 50km on 2 days (Gisborne, and from the trailhead to Wānaka)
* 🚗 Taxi: 12.8km (to and from WLG)
* 🚌 Bus: 138.5km on 7 days (including the shuttle from ZQN to the trailhead, 80km; also Hutt Valley and Queenstown)
* ✈ Plane: 6848km (GIS-WLG, WLG-CHC-ZQN, ZQN-AKL-WLG, WLG-AKL-PPT)
* ⛴ Boat: 90.5km (Queenstown ferry, Tahiti to Moorea and back, boat tours)
* &#x1F3CD; Scooter: 280km (around and around Moorea)

## Walks

* [Cooks Cove Walkway](https://www.doc.govt.nz/parks-and-recreation/places-to-go/east-coast/places/tolaga-bay-area/things-to-do/cooks-cove-walkway/), 5.8km near Gisborne, great views.
* Karori Cemetary to Otari-Wilton Bush (red/blue tracks), 9.2km again with MP's meetup group
* [Trois Pinus, Moorea](https://www.wikiloc.com/hiking-trails/3-pinus-moorea-39684727): three kinds of skinks, good views at the 3 pines lookout with a swing, some birds.
* [Trois Cocotiers, Moorea](https://www.camptocamp.org/routes/741588/fr/col-des-trois-cocotiers-ou-col-de-tetoatoa-depuis-le-belvedere-d-opunohu): saw a grey-green fruit dove and some society kingfishers, along with silvereyes and red-vented bulbuls; there are signs saying there are potential Moorea reed warblers, but there are actually no reliable recent sightings of this bird. There were definitely bamboo forests and azure-tailed skinks though.

# Pictures

* [December photos post](/post/20250101-december-photos)


I'm still processing December 2022 photos, with three days on the Gillespie Circuit left. The processing rate was also down from November, since I was travelling in December 2024 as well, or sometimes I was kind of staying put in Wānaka/Queenstown but didn't have my computer. Still, it wasn't down as much as I might have thought.

Removed 18 sets from the queue and added 13. After I finish the three last December 2022 sets and the 5 January 2023 sets then I'll get to August 2023.

[Picture
logs](https://www.github.com/patricklam/picture-processing-logs) still
available. As always, pictures are clickable to go to the full gallery. 

* Sets of pictures posted: 18 (November: 22)
* Total pictures posted: 652 (900)
* Total pictures in selection pool: 2542 (3011)
* Accept rate: 26% (min 14%, max 63%) (30%)

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250101-december-photos/highlights" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Three baby scaups; greenery off Lake Wānaka; various unnamed peaks; ridgelines and clouds; sushi-like iceberg and Aoraki; heron (my desktop background); me and Lakes Hooker and Mueller; NZ pipit; Aoraki summit complex at golden hour; mountains and cloud; grebe dance; two baby grebes on backs; parent and baby grebe; engine details at Remutaka; black and white horses.</figcaption>
</figure>

# December posts

Back to the normal number of posts.
* [Trip report: Gisborne, November 28–Dec 1 2024](/post/20241205-gisborne)
* [Submission on the (terrible) Principles of the Treaty of Waitangi Bill](/post/20241206-submission-principles-treaty-of-waitangi)

# Miscellaneous

For my last month of my sabbatical I was in Wellington on 20 days.

## Acquisitions

* the cheapest possible fins for snorkelling at Ocean Hunter (do not regret)
* Icebreaker [Men's Merino 150 Tech Lite T-shirt](https://www.icebreaker.com/en-ca/mens-tshirts/merino-150-tech-lite-short-sleeve-t-shirt/0A56WL.html)
* Mons Royale [Virage bike pants](https://ca.monsroyale.com/products/virage-pants-black-mens-ss22) (look like hiking pants, wouldn't wear in Waterloo, but probably good in the heat)
* [BD Cosmo 350-R](https://www.blackdiamondequipment.com/en_US/product/cosmo-350-r/) headlamp
* $20 suitcase from an op shop in Karori to transport stuff back to Canada

## Sports

Even if I hadn't been out of town, judo does take a pause around
Christmas. Just went to judo 4× in December (plus there was that whole
COVID thing). Did get to Faultline 7× before ending my membership for
now, plus once at the Queenstown climbing gym. Haven't had that pace
of visits to GRR in January.

## Food

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250129-december/food" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">La Kebab and falafel; normal-sized sandwich at Shelley Bay Baker; pasta at Podium; tacos at Atlas Beer Cafe; pain au chocolat at Ma Boulangerie.</figcaption>
</figure>

### Wellington

* [La Kebab](https://lakebab.nz/): on my way to the Wellington Top 10 Holiday Park. Cook had just made some fresh falafel and gave me a free one. Good choice in general.
* [Shelly Bay Baker on Karori Road](https://shellybaybaker.co.nz/): a quite reasonable sandwich

### Queenstown

* [Podium Restaurant and Bar @ Sudima Queenstown](https://www.sudimahotels.com/en/our-hotels/queenstown-5-mile/dine-drink/): our room came with a free drinks voucher and we ended up staying for dinner, which definitely exceeded my hotel restaurant expectation and is good in the open category
* [Hikari Teppanyaki](https://teppanyaki.hikari.co.nz/): good for a sushi place on the NZ scale, has tuna and it is possible to avoid the chicken sushi; I had a reasonable bento box
* [Atlas Beer Cafe](https://www.atlasbeercafe.com/): I guess you go for the beer, not the food, but the tacos were OK and the view was good. Also the atmosphere. We were having trouble finding a place on the lake that we wanted to go to.
* [Ma Boulangerie](https://www.facebook.com/maboulangerie.nz/): actually I like it better than little grump in Wellington; comparable to le panier in Christchurch, not sure which would win head-to-head

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250129-december/food-pyf" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Foie gras and soursop macarons; shrimp roll at the surfhouse; cooked tuna at Motu Grill; burger and fries (Fare Canadienne); breakfast from Caramel'in; raw tuna with coconut milk at O Moana; pizza from L'Happy'z; grilled chicken from Moorea Maitai; not Mexican food from La Grande Voile; eggplant from Le Cheval d'Or; banh mi from the Papeete market.</figcaption>
</figure>

### Tahiti/Moorea

* [the surfhouse](https://surfhouse.pf/): was actually the restaurant colocated with the Kon Tiki Cabins where we stayed; reasonable food
* [Motu Grill](https://www.mooreagolflodge.pf/en/): our first real meal at a restaurant in Moorea, and one of the best, with excellent fish of all sorts, though the fries were better elsewhere. Roquefort sauce is quite popular in Tahiti for some reason, and it was good here.
* [Fare La Canadienne](https://farelacanadienne.com/): was indeed owned by Quebecers (we were served by Nancy) and was playing a Quebec radio station; I did not have the poutine as I'd be in Montreal soon enough anyway, but the burger was delicious and the fries crispier than at Motu
* Caramel'in: decent bakery, not as flaky as I'd hope, but a good choice for breakfast when open (not Sunday)
* [O Moana Snack](https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=61550704365451): had just opened 3 days earlier when we were there; service was extremely slow even for island time, though food was tasty
* [Restaurant L'Happy'z Moorea](https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=100095125761206): time for something that is not fish; the pizza here was definitely not fish and got our stamp of approval
* Moorea Maitai: I guess there's no real reason to think that grilled chicken would be BBQ'd, so that's a me problem
* [La Grande Voile](https://www.facebook.com/lagrandvoilemoorea): this is not Mexican food! not bad, and really popular, but definitely not Mexican.
* Le Cheval d'Or: old-school Chinese restaurant where there were very few white people; eggplant was a winner.
* banh mi at the Papeete market: not bad, not superlative
* coconut milk at the Papeete market: oops, you don't really want to drink 250mL of it at once

All the meals in Moorea were super huge.

## Volunteering

Barely any. Some calls for the OAC and the Judo Ontario Referee Committee.

# Conclusion

Last month of sabbatical was more teaching-focussed than earlier. And
there were some good trips to Gisborne and French Polynesia. Didn't
manage to achieve our objective on the Cascade Saddle.