---
layout:     post

title:      "February: still teaching three courses, plus a hiking trip to Japan"
date:       2025-03-31
author:     "Patrick Lam"
tags:       ["retrospective"]
categories: ["work", "travel"]
image:      "/img/20250331-february/09237_cedar_forest.avif"
showtoc:    true
summary:    "OK, this month had a trip to Japan. Aside from that, I got to Toronto once, and to Kingston just at the end of the month. February is a short month, though."

---

<style>
.post-heading h1  { color: white; background-color: #aaa; background-color: rgba(192,192,192,0.8); padding: 0.5em; text-shadow: 2px 2px 2px grey; }
.meta { color: white; background-color: #aaa; background-color: rgba(192,192,192,0.8); padding: 0.5em; color: yellow; text-shadow: 2px 2px 2px grey; }
</style>

OK, this month had a trip to Japan. Aside from that, I got to Toronto once, and to Kingston just at the end of the month. February is a short month, though. As busy as that was, March was somehow busier, and here we are posting this just at the end of the month. The mistake was trying to write the trip report.

# COVID

Again, not much news this month either. There is a nasal vaccine update and Hilda Bastian's usual monthly update. I found out about a nasal vaccine clinical trial in Hamilton but that would be driving to Hamilton six times (once a week), yikes.
* Eric Topol. [A COVID nasal vaccine update.](https://erictopol.substack.com/p/a-covid-nasal-vaccine-update)
* Hilda Bastian. [Exciting news from Europe and roadbloacks in the US](https://absolutelymaybe.plos.org/2025/02/28/exciting-news-from-europe-and-roadblocks-in-the-us-nextgen-covid-vax-update-26/)

# Professional

Still teaching three courses. There was a university closure due to
forecast snow on February 12, which was announced while I was giving
an in-class quiz. So my 5:30 lecture got cancelled. The university was
also closed on the following Thursday, but that's a no-teaching day
for me.  During my flights to and from Japan, I wrote some grant
proposal reviews.  I did prepare some teaching notes one day while I
was otherwise on vacation in Japan. No paper submissions. Indeed, not
much progress on papers at all&mdash;just what my students could do with
some guidance during weekly or twice-weekly meetings.

## Teaching

The most annoying thing was a partly self-inflicted problem with using
Crowdmark and LEARN integration.  I don't use LEARN, the campus's
learning management software. I do try to use Crowdmark for doing exam
marking online. But if you don't create the course in LEARN, then the
Crowdmark exams don't scan to the right place (or any place at
all). Oops. Had to retrieve the midterms and get them marked on paper.

Apart from that, there was a fair amount of other work for that course
as well, and much less work for the other two sections of ECE 459;
just delivering lectures.

## Grad students/mentees/collaborators

Again met my students on 8 days and had a single SIGPLAN-M meeting.
There was some rescheduling of those meetings in February and it's just a short month.
No collaboration either.

## Collegiality/Service

Just grant reviews, two TOSEM reviews, and the FAUW governance reform working group.

# Trips

Last month it was French Polynesia, Montreal, and Regina. This month
it was Japan, Toronto, and Kingston. Toronto and Kingston are much
closer. Japan is pretty far, though not as far as Aotearoa.

## Japan

Japan remains sort of midway between New Zealand and Toronto: about 12
hours of flying from each, more or less. MP was pretty keen on walking
the [Kumano Kodo](https://www.tb-kumano.jp/en/kumano-kodo/) on the Kii
Peninsula, so we planned a trip for reading week.

I should really read [Things Become Other
Things](https://craigmod.com/books/things_become_other_things/) by
Craig Mod, also about walking on this peninsula.

The Kumano Kodo is one half of the [Dual Pilgrim](https://www.tb-kumano.jp/en/kumano-kodo/dual-pilgrim/)
routes which are UNESCO World Heritage recognized; the other route is the Camino de Santiago in Spain.
There are 4 options to complete the Kumano Kodo, and we finished almost all of 3 of the options (two
completely).

I started writing a trip report but didn't finish that by the end of March, so I'll just publish this for now.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250331-february/japan" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Osaka skyline; Osaka Castle; chiaroscuro on the Kii Peninsula; stamping station; line of trees in the snow; rougher track.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Toronto

At the beginning of the month I went to Toronto to visit my cousin and
for an OAC social event (at a climbing gym, of course; happened to be
Joe Rockheads). Good to be able to combine trips like that.  That
resulted in 244km of driving.

I also went to Toronto on a Thursday night to help give a refereeing clinic, another 217km.

## Kingston

At the end of the month I went to Kingston to referee at the RMC Open, carpooling from Toronto.
Didn't see much of Kingston. Last time I went to the RMC Open there was a snowstorm.
Fortunately, this time, there wasn't.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250331-february/local" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Joe Rockhead's; Toronto refereeing clinic setup; snowstorm; RMC Open setup; snow in Kingston; me in Kingston; RMC Open.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Travel Planning

I guess I didn't mention in January, though apparently I should have, that I booked a flight to Lima for
a refereeing seminar in April. I have not done any further planning for that trip yet. Still have a month.

I also planned logistics for the Kingston trip towards the beginning of February. There isn't much to do,
though, just an airbnb for a night and coordinating travel.

I made backup plans for getting to Osaka, since there was a bunch of snow falling. In the end I didn't need them,
but it's good to be prepared for contingencies.

# Movement statistics

There was that hike in Japan! Aside from that, mostly biking around Waterloo, some driving,
and flights to and from Japan. New means of transportation for this series: monorail.

Movement statistics:
* 🚶 Walking: 135km on 18 days (115km in Japan)
* 🚲 Biking: 139km on 16 days
* 🚗 Driving: 894km on 7 days (Toronto 2×, Kingston)
* 🚗 Taxi: 0
* 🚌 Bus: 313km on 6 days (YYZ, and to Shingu, plus some shorter rides)
* 🚇 Metro: 30km on 4 days (Osaka)
* 🚆 Train: 445km on 3 days (Osaka-Tanabe, Nachi-Osaka-KIX, KIX-Osaka)
* 🚆 Monorail: 2km on 2 days (Osaka)
* ⛷ Skiing: 6km cross-country skiing (Waterloo)
* ✈ Plane: 22087km on 3 days (YYZ-NRT-ITM, ITM-NRT-YYZ)

Transit was 788km.

## Walks

* [Kumano Kodo Nakahechi](https://www.tb-kumano.jp/en/kumano-kodo/nakahechi/), 82km, Takajiri-Chiyakatsuyu-Hongu, Kawayu-Koguchi-Nachi.

# Pictures

* [February photos post](/post/20250301-february-photos)

February is a few days shorter than January, but I processed half as many photos in February as I did in January! Two more sets in February than January (9 versus 7), but most of the sets were small,
and there were way fewer big sets.

So, that's 9 sets off the queue and 10 sets onto the queue, but those 10 sets contain 3,085 pictures. That'll be fun.

[Picture
logs](https://www.github.com/patricklam/picture-processing-logs) still
available. As always, pictures are clickable to go to the full gallery. 

* Sets of pictures posted: 9 (January: 7)
* Total pictures posted: 244 (415)
* Total pictures in selection pool: 700 (1357)
* Accept rate: 35% (min 27%, max 62%) (31%)
* Pictures posted on this page: 43

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250301-february-photos/highlights" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Taranaki in the clouds; Manganui public shelter; Stade Olympique de Montréal; City of Regina Fieldhouse; Sask Open match; snowy farm on the Prairies; downy woodpecker.</figcaption>
</figure>

# February posts

Only one post, but this one contained original research. It's not up to publishable standards, but it does contain legit analysis.

* [Quebec referee stats](/post/20250214-quebec-referee-stats)

# Miscellaneous

I'm glad I got to Japan, because I really didn't get very far otherwise. Kingston is somewhat far.

## Acquisitions

I had my laptop USB-C charger fixed at the nearby laptop/phone repair place, [SimplyFIXIT](https://www.simplyfixit.ca/).
The tech came in to fix the computer when there was that huge snowstorm. I guess they didn't crash their car coming in?
Meanwhile I was using my old laptop, and remembered that it was kind of wonky in a bunch of ways. I also had a
rip in my pants fixed, but then I got new pants in March anyway.

I actually installed my ecobee smart thermostat. It seems to work. Good to be able to control remotely.
Screwing it in the wall was more annoying than I'd like.

I also replaced a smoke detector.

I bought a [stuff sack](https://www.byload.jp/items/94618904) and pants in Japan. I think the
pants I got in NZ at Mons Royale are better, but they're pretty thin.

## Sports

Cross-country skiing at Schneider's Bush, judo 6× (well, once was a refereeing clinic). GRR 3×, Joe Rockhead's 1×.

## Food

Not too many restaurants in Ontario. Lots of restaurants in Japan.

### Ontario

* [Left Field Brewery, Toronto](https://www.leftfieldbrewery.ca/): decent, if unremarkable, pulled pork poutine aka pretty good
* [Pho Foodie, Toronto](https://www.phofoodie.com/): there are a bunch of new places with highly flavourful pho these days; this is one of them. Doesn't taste watered down.
* [Seven Shores, Waterloo](http://www.sevenshores.ca/): I've certainly been here before but more than 5 years ago. Breakfast burrito is fine. Gotta have eggs for breakfast...
* [Lone Star Texas Grill, Kingston](https://lonestartexasgrill.com/): "Proudly Canadian since 1986" says their webpage. OK burger. Likely not the world's best fajitas. We're in Canada, after all.
* YYZ International Maple Leaf Lounge: Haven't been to this lounge since 2019. Actually didn't really eat here (had food coming on the plane), but nice to be back.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250331-february/food-local" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Left Field Brewery poutine; Pho Foodie; Seven Shores; YYZ Maple Leaf Int'l; Lone Star (Kingston).</figcaption>
</figure>

### Japan

Umm, so much food, 95% of which was good. It is too hard to give shout-outs to specific places, so I won't.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250331-february/food-japan" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Pizza toast in Osaka; to-go sushi for the train (ekiban); soba and tempura and rice balls; nigiri sushi and others; konbini hotdog; tempura; more nigiri sushi; dinner at Minshuku Sumiya in Kawayu; breakfast at same place; lunch box also from there; venison hotpot at @Koguchi.</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250331-february/food-japan-2" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Breakfast @Koguchi; lunch box; warm matcha tea at Kumano-Nachi Taisha; fancy fish at the JF Katsuura Seafood Market; takoyaki in Osaka Dōtonbori; MP with strawberries; grilled seafood; very average fried rice with sauce; melon bread (no melon); "food" offering at ANA domestic lounge; great food at Turkish Airlines NRT lounge.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Volunteering

For the OAC I organized a volunteer meetup in Toronto, which was good to have. There was also reasonably
active volunteering for the Scouts. And for judo there was a drive to Toronto to co-teach a refereeing rules seminar
as well as a drive to Kingston for refereeing on March 1st.

# Conclusion

Two-thirds done with Winter term teaching. I guess I would have had more recovery time if I hadn't done
the Japan trip, but that would have been sad. There are definitely some good pictures in that bundle of Japan pictures.
Hope I can get some research re-started soon.