---
layout:     post

title:      "May: exams and travels"
date:       2025-06-26
author:     "Patrick Lam"
tags:       ["retrospective"]
categories: ["work", "travel"]
published:  true
image:      "/img/20250626-may/30_04469_glowing_kapiti_island_v1.avif"
showtoc:    true
summary:    "First month of Spring term; off to Montreal, Estonia, Calgary, and New Zealand!"

---

<style>
.post-heading h1  { color: white; background-color: #aaa; background-color: rgba(192,192,192,0.8); padding: 0.5em; text-shadow: 2px 2px 2px grey; border-radius:25px; }
.meta { color: white; background-color: #aaa; background-color: rgba(192,192,192,0.8); padding: 0.5em; color: yellow; text-shadow: 2px 2px 2px grey; border-radius:15px; }
</style>

Oof, finished Winter term and 3 courses. That meant that I had time for finally visiting my collaborators in
Estonia (new country), Canadian judo nationals in Calgary, and going to New Zealand, along with a few days in
Montreal (one day in May) before I left for Estonia. 

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250626-may/2505-highlights" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Bloc Shop Mile Ex; Aleksander Nevski katedraal (Tallinn); Tartu Cathedral ruins; hooded crow with branch; our TOPLAS paper authors; boardwalk on the Estonian bog; Estonia highpoint; YYZ ramp; Canadian Open Nationals shiai-jo; ippon; misty morning in Calgary; Tennyson Inlet (NZ); back at WLG, no eagles; orange sky in Kelburn; Escarpment Track; VM -66 podium at Wellington Open; looks like ippon.</figcaption>
</figure>

# Public Health

Blog post about how society has given up:
* [https://buttondown.com/dznz/archive/we-are-all-mad-now/](https://buttondown.com/dznz/archive/we-are-all-mad-now/)

On the flight to New Zealand I was next to a sniffler. And there was a sniffler behind me. But I guess what
are you going to do? Flights are not cheap and not really moveable. Well, I wore a mask, so I didn't catch
anything from the flight, but then caught a cold a week and a half after arriving in Aotearoa for no apparent
reason. Can't win em all.

Some other vaccine news:

* [Moderna development continues, for now, with NEXSPIKE](https://www.statnews.com/2025/05/31/moderna-covid-vaccine-mnexspike-fda-approval/)
* [Absolutely Maybe, May 2025: More vaccines, including not-very-rigourous nasal vaccine results](https://absolutelymaybe.plos.org/2025/05/31/intranasal-vaccine-trial-results-and-more-on-preventing-covid-infection-nextgen-vax-update-29/)

There are a lot of colds going around NZ for sure. The [Flutracker data](file:///home/plam/Downloads/WeeklyReport_202524_NZ.pdf) show it. But the [COVID levels](https://poops.nz), while higher than the first part of the year, aren't as high as fall/winter 2024 yet.

# Professional

This month was more exploratory. Thinking of new projects to work on
with Estonians, and also what to propose to Amazon for Rust
verification. Vinayak's project was chugging along in May, though, and
we did submit something in early June.

I thought I had a lot of non-work days, but I worked on 21 days. There are 22 work
days in May. I also tried to take it easy when I had a cold.

## Teaching

I wasn't completely free of teaching in May. I gave two oral exams
for ECE 459 and fixed some SE 465 marks. Also discussed changes to SE 465
to better adapt it for that audience. Should work on that next month.

## Grad students/mentees/collaborators

In May I talked to my grad students on 6 days (despite travel), one SE
alum, one lunch with TA for SE 465, and had 6 days with collaborators
in Estonia. Two other SIGPLAN-M mentee meetings&mdash;there was the in-person
meeting in Ottawa in April.

## Collegiality/Service

FAUW governance reform meeting, class rep elections for SE 2026, 3
Onward! reviews.

# Trips

As I mentioned above: Montreal/Estonia, then back to Waterloo for two days, then Calgary and from there Wellington.

# Trip: Estonia, May 2 &ndash; 12

* [Full trip report](/post/20250625-trip-report-estonia)

Vesal and I managed to coordinate, and I found a slot in my schedule, for a visit to Tartu in early May. Europe is
sort of close to eastern North America: closer than New Zealand for sure, anyway. 

I'd arranged this travel so that I'd spend a few days in Montréal before going to Estonia. My flight was
from Montréal to Tallinn and then from Tallinn back to Toronto. So, after three days in Montreal,
including seeing the parents and visiting the bouldering gyms, it was off to Tallinn. (The Plateau Mont-Royal is
indeed pretty urban, and, yes, bigger than Wellington. Maybe it'd be nice to live there one day,
but Québec politics is complicated.)

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250626-may/estonia-fauna" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Eurasian red squirrel; common chaffinch; great tit; black headed gulls; common wood pigeons; fox; baby fieldfare; starling; two terns.</figcaption>
</figure>

This was the first time I'd been to Europe since late 2019 (Greece, for OOPSLA), so I was looking forward to that.

## YUL-CDG-TLL, May 2

The 747 bus to YUL was packed. Fortunately, I was mostly travelling
light, though I had packed my lighter travel judogi, which I'd use in
Montréal and Tartu. Still, I had two backpacks (40L and 26L).

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250626-may/estonia-transportation" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Around Terminal 1 at CDG; getting off the train in Tartu; TLL; flowering tree in Toronto.</figcaption>
</figure>

Much later, after landing in Tallinn, the weather got a bit rainier but not a downpour, and I continued walking to the old town,
aiming in particular for the Alexander Nevelsky katedraal. One might think it looks somewhat
Russian, but it's still a key tourist attraction.

One reason that I do airport walks is to see what the infrastructure
is like.  YYZ loses badly, while, say, GVA is excellent. TLL is
walkable on sidewalks but there are stroady bits and huge malls near
the airport. Comparable to LHR, but Tallinn is smaller, so the
distance is less. As I got closer to the centre the streets became
less stroady and there were more old buildings showing up, made of
wood, brick, or stone (rather than concrete).

Getting to the old town, things looked medieval, and that is also a
big part of their marketing, with Vikings playing a small role as
well. It's somewhat like Old Montreal, but a few centuries older, and
with more castles and buildings made of stone. The centre is closed to
cars and there are lots of people walking around. Touristy, of course,
but it seems to work as a place for tourists.

## Birds and Old Tallinn, May 3

Estonia's marketing, like New Zealand's, involves a lot of nature. I
didn't really have capacity to plan logistics for a hike, even though
some surprisingly long hikes are possible in this small country. I did
have capacity to go on a [half-day bird tour with Marko](https://www.capture-estonia.ee/bird-wathing-tour-tallinn-area/), where we saw
lots of birds and I learned about Estonian society from a different
perspective.

We went around in his car and saw a lot of seabirds, as well as some
treebirds. There were also thousands of migrating geese in a field. I
had no target species, since European birds are all new to me. (I did
have, like, 3 European birds in my photo archives, none of which were
good). Chiffchaffs? What's that? Terns, fieldfares, storks, etc; we
saw over 50 species in all. 

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250626-may/estonia-tallinn" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Rataskaevu 16; Estonian flag; lots of Greek strawberries; market; another hotel view (much better); derogatory fliers at Russian embassy; Tallinna Linnahall; some tower; St. Olaf's Church and Church of Transfiguration of Our Lord; flying out of Tallinn.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Tallinn to Tartu, May 4

Pretty chill day. The train takes two hours. Then, despite
Karoliine having told me that nothing is really far in Tartu, it's
still a half-hour walk. Saw some birds and got to the hotel, which was
pretty standard, but had a non-stellar view of the bus station.
The bus is much more central for the hotel than the train!

## Tartu visit, May 5 &ndash; 9

The weather was sunny and not very warm for the whole week I was in Tartu (May at 58°N, I guess).
So, early the first morning, I went to go look for some birds near the cathedral ruins.
My fingers actually got really cold after a while, so I left. There were fieldfares,
hooded crows, a great tit, feral pigeons, starlings, and perhaps a European pied flycatcher.

Karoliine did the tour guide thing and showed me around the highlights of Tartu.
It's a small town. Even smaller than Kitchener-Waterloo. It's less spread out, and
I think one can walk from one end to the other in 1 or 1.5 hours. The malls are all together,
and there are also historic buildings in the old town. There's also a river, and many bridges
across it.

Professionally, it was good to spend a week checking out what was going on in Tartu.
A bunch of stuff. I went to a thesis defense, gave some comments on an industrial-outreach
talk by Vesal, talked to people, and thought about future plans. Good intellectual exposure to
another environment, though not as intense (i.e. more sustainable) than going to a conference.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250626-may/estonia-tartu" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Graffiti re: regrets; modern downtown Tartu; view from Dorpat room; Kissing Students statue in front of City Hall; Delta; judo; St Georgs Church; tourist area street in Tartu; sailing by; under the Rahu bridge at night; more strawberries.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Southern Estonia, May 10

Karoliine had planned an excursion around Southern Estonia. We all met up at Delta and
then set off to see some classic Estonian bogs; the highpoint of Estonia; and the watchtower
Pesapuu.

First, Meenikunno. We drove through the countryside and to an empty
parking lot, and then had a nice hike on a loop through the bog, with
boardwalks as appropriate. The parking lot we picked was not the
popular one, and there were indeed some people on the trails, but not
a huge amount.  There was also an observation tower and a lake. The
lake had some common goldeneyes, and we ran into some fungi
hunters who pointed out some false morels. Also, there was a nice
looking hut. Nice, easy walk (8km, mainly flat: it is a bog, after
all!).

I'd requested to go to the Estonian highpoint, Suur Munamägi. It's not very high, at 318m above sea level.
It's also my first country highpoint, somehow. I'm not [Eric Gilbertson](https://www.countryhighpoints.com/).
I have been to a number of state and province highpoints, but have never managed to make it to a country highpoint.
Eric [has been to this one](https://www.countryhighpoints.com/estonia-suur-munamagi/), of course, and not up the tower,
since he was there at night. I also did not go up the tower.

Finally, it was off to the Pesapuu observation tower, 30m, where we could get a view over the countryside.
They'd also done some practical anthropology experiments a few years ago, living for some weeks in
ancient houses. The houses were still there. They don't look super comfortable.

After that, it was back to Tartu, where I took the bus to Tallinn. The seats on the bus are
more comfortable, I guess, but I still prefer trains. But the bus does leave from a more convenient place.
Both the bus and the train stop at Tallinn airport, where I had a two-night reservation just nearby.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250626-may/estonia-southern" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Inside the hut; Suur Suurjaav, a chilly lake; forest; spring vetch; false morel; view from Birds Nest; Birds Nest; replica village.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Back to Tallinn, May 11, and to Canada, May 12

The Tallinn airport Mercure was actually quite nice and had a better view of a fountain, a river, and a parking lot, rather
than just a parking lot. I think the more expensive rooms at Dorpat also had a good view of the river,
but that's not what I got. Anyway, it was really pretty at sunset. I also saw a bunch of terns in Tallinn
between the airport and the hotel.

Tallinn and Tartu both have a bunch of malls. I guess it's dark a lot. I got something from the supermarket
on Saturday night, and excellent dumplings at the mall on Sunday, when I had a bit of a later start.

I did have all day in Tallinn on Sunday, and visited the [Linnahall](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linnahall),
which the tourist bureau calls an architectural gem. Well, there's a lot of concrete. I also watched birds
for a bit, though I didn't have the good lens with me, just the point-and-shoot. People do go to fish at Linnahall,
which is on the water, and hence where the 1980 Olympic sailing happened.

I also visited the [Museum of Photography](https://linnamuuseum.ee/en/museum-of-photography/exhibitions/).
They had cameras but also exhibitions that were very much not G-rated, as it turns out. Not really
what they would talk about in public in Soviet days.

# Trip: Calgary, May 14 &ndash; 18

Not much to say about this trip. I flew into Toronto on Monday evening and left on Wednesday afternoon,
after errands (haircut!), meetings, and class rep elections. Had to take the taxi to YKF with my 60kg of luggage
(including skis); the YKF bus left at 5:45 and I left campus at 5:00. Fortunately, the check-in requirement
at YKF for the bus is 15 minutes before departure.

Having talked to Lorenzo from UCalgary at ICSE two weeks before, I
arranged to give a talk at Calgary, which was well-attended by
students and the number of faculty I'd expect (4 or 5, pretty good, really). It was my staple talk
"[Hot Takes on Machine Learning for Program
Analysis](/presentations/25.ucalgary.hot-takes.pdf)" with some updates
for 2025. Then I refereed the ne-waza (groundwork) on Thursday,
followed by three full days of tournament. Saturday (U21/U16) was kind
of rough but Sunday (seniors) was smoother.

Thanks to the Judo Alberta referees for organizing an event at Ranchman's.
There was supposed to be mechanical bull time but I thought I should get some
rest. There was definitely line dancing lessons.

After the tournament I stuck around for a bit. Sandra brought oysters
from PEI and the referees had an impromptu hospitality suite at the
hotel. Most left for the banquet, but I left for Wellington via
Vancouver and Brisbane. At YYC, I remembered that I had my mountaineering boots
and that I needed to clean them. Good thing I had a spare toothbrush.

* [Waterloo to Calgary (11/16), May 14](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/2087)
* [Open Nationals day 0 and 1 (16/27), May 15-16](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/2088)
* [Open Nationals day 2 (11/25), May 17](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/2090)
* [Open Nationals day 3 and leaving YYC (10/12), May 18](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/2089)
* [YYC-YVR-BNE-WLG (24/57), May 18-20](https://gallery.patricklam.ca/index.php?/category/2091)

## Travel Planning

There wasn't really any time to do Estonia travel planning. Good thing that
had mostly been done in April. I did plan my trip to PLDI in Seoul, which
is mid-May.

# Movement statistics

Not much walking. Bunch of biking. Couple of driving trips.

Movement statistics:
* 🚶 Walking: 133km on 23 days
* 🚲 Biking: 38km on 7 days
* 🚗 Driving: 406km on 6 days (visiting Southern Estonia; Estonian bird tour; Wellington Open)
* 🚗 Taxi: 48km (Calgary; transit not an option with 60kg of luggage)
* 🚆 Train: 370km on 3 days (Tallinn to Tartu; UP Express and then to Kitchener; out to Paekakariri)
* 🚌 Bus: 300km on 6 days (Tartu to Tallinn; YKF to YYZ; in town)
* 🚆 Metro: 28km (Montréal)
* 🚆 LRT: 5km (Tallinn)
* 🛴 Kick e-scooter: 8.5km (Tartu)
* ✈ Plane: 32576km (YUL-CDG-TLL; TLL-AMS-YYZ; YYZ-YYC; YYC-YVR-BNE-WLG)
* &#x1F6A1; Cable car: 0.7km (1×)

Transit was 700km, dominated by bus and train from Tallinn to Tartu (about 200km each way).

## Walks

One repeat:

* Paekakariki Escarpment Track: 10km, 382m elevation gain; is nicer with cars below now mostly taking Transmission Gully instead of the coastal route; was less hot than when we did it in March 2020.

Most of the walking distance was in Estonia, just around the cities. The 133km number was pretty high given
that I had 3 days just staying at home with a cold.

# Pictures

* [May photos post (many photos)](/post/20250601-may-photos)

I added 19 sets of pictures and processed 19 sets of pictures, so breaking even I guess? Still, I processed some quite big sets of pictures from the past and probably the backlog is smaller than it used to be.

[Picture
logs](https://www.github.com/patricklam/picture-processing-logs) still
available. As always, pictures are clickable to go to the full gallery. 

* Sets of pictures posted: May=19, April=9, March=2
* Total pictures posted: May=755, April=352, March=54
* Total pictures in selection pool: 2339 (April/March 1664)
* Accept rate: 32% (min 15%, max 67%)
* Pictures posted on this page: 127

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250601-may-photos/highlights" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">
Sun Showers and godwits artwork at AKL;
Mont Tacos in Montreal (pas super);
Treble Cone and view of Lake Wānaka;
early morning view of Kapiti Island;
Pacific Ocean and coastline;
shirts at Papeete Market;
sorting coffee beans;
cat at O Belvedere;
hanging out on the beach;
bibliothèque mont-Royal;
Montréal alleyways;
Eurasian red squirrel eating;
Alexander Nevalsky catedral;
Estonian flag.
</figcaption>
</figure>

Just the birds:

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250601-may-photos/highlights-birds" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">
(Peru): Two Inca terns;
Humboldt penguin;
ruddy turnstone with kelp;
oystercatcher at work;
(Canada): black-capped chickadee;
(Aotearoa): two bellbirds;
pīwakawaka;
three kererū;
(Estonia): two common wood pigeons;
baby fieldfare.</figcaption>
</figure>

# Miscellaneous

No general comments about May.

## Acquisitions

Uh, I don't have any acquisitions of durable goods recorded, and I didn't see any on my credit card bills, so I guess:

* None.

## Sports

Despite the travel, went bouldering 6×, including reinstating my
Faultline membership in Wellington and getting there 4× before getting
a cold. Also Ronimistehaus in Tartu (self-serve entry) and Bloc Shop
in Montreal. Judo was tougher: only made it to practice 3× in May. Too
much time on the mat as a referee (and also fighting in the Wellington
Open, where I got 1st in Veterans despite getting over a cold). That
is: 5.5 days refereeing, including 3.5 at Canadian Nationals and 2 at
Wellington Open.

## Food

More restaurants in places that are not Waterloo:

### Montreal, Calgary and Wellington

* [Trip de Bouffe, Montreal](https://www.tripdebouffe.com/en): za'atar is good for breakfast (with tomato and cheese).
* [Last Defence Lounge, Calgary](https://www.lastdefencelounge.ca/): run by UCalgary Grad Students' Association, viable non-food-court lunch option near campus.
* [The Canadian Brewhouse, Calgary](https://thecanadianbrewhouse.com/locations/calgary/): my ravioli was OK (better than the one in Estonia) but people had bad experiences with steak.
* [Ranchman's, Calgary](https://www.ranchmans.ca/): a happening place; thanks to the Judo Alberta referees for bringing us there. Go for the atmosphere not the food.
* [Native Tongues, Calgary](https://www.nativetongues.ca/): definitely preferred the tacos here over steak I didn't have at Canadian Brewhouse. Correct fish tacos and quantity was good.
* [Village Ice Cream, Calgary](https://villageicecream.com/): long lines even in rainy weather; probably worth it, and definitely when there are no lines.
* [Elixir, Wellington](https://www.instagram.com/elixir.nz/?hl=en): go for the fancy cocktails, not the cocktail snacks; cheese and potatoes were OK but not filling.
* [Club Vista, Paraparaumu](https://www.clubvista.co.nz/): enjoyable burger at a social club/RSA and also they forgot our order and felt super embarrassed about it, scoring a free dessert and chips for us.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250626-may/food-not-estonia" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Breakfast za'atar; very forgettable sandwich at CDG (no lounge, sigh); sandwich and tater tots; ravioli; beef, mac and cheese, and vegetables; tacos; ice cream; cheese plate and potatoes with aioli; burger.</figcaption>
</figure>


### Estonia Tartu and southern Estonia

Good food in Estonia (mostly)!

* [Reval Cafe](https://revalcafe.ee/kohvik/tartu-riia-mnt/): ravioli with bechamel sauce is a bit weird as an accompaniment.
* [Kolm Tilli](https://sevensons.ee/en/places/kolm-tilli/): I think the crispy chicken bao was objectively good but I didn't actually feel like kimchi that day.
* [Kohvik Werner](https://werner.ee/): looks like a daily menu of chicken (daily menus are great). Did not have any pastries, alas.
* [The Grill](https://thegrill.ee/menuu): another daily menu, obviously grilled meat.
* [Uulits](https://uulits.ee/): at a place with a bunch of kitchens, but I just had a burger and fries, yum.
* [Dorpat Hotell](https://dorpat.ee/): regular (above-average?) business hotel breakfast spread.
* Delta Center: the University has pretty good lunch on campus with options; people said they got bored of it after a while, but it's affordable and doesn't seem too unhealthy.
* [Puente Restoran](https://www.puente.ee/): fancy dinner with collaborators, well worth a splurge.
* [Suur Muna](https://suurmuna.ee/en/): tourist trap but also really good: our guess was that tourists often come with locals, so it is actually not a one-off destination for most.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250626-may/food-tartu" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Ravioli with weird sauce; bao at Kolm Tilli; chicken at Kohvik Werner; lunch at The Grill; burger and fries; Dorpat Hotel breakfast; last lunch at the Delta Centre; excellent pork cheek medallion; wild boar at Suur Muna.</figcaption>
</figure>

### Estonia Tallinn

* [Peetri Pizza](https://www.peetripizza.ee/): unremarkable fast-food pizza; I'd meant to go to the pizza place next door, oops.
* [Rataskaevu 16](http://www.rataskaevu16.ee/): truly excellent pork rib and memorable service; also talked to a digital nomad at the next table.
* [NOP Cafe](https://www.nop.ee/): popular place to be on a Sunday morning with a shakshouka that I'd eat again with no hesitation.
* [Samsa Family Bakers](https://samsafamilybakers.ee/): at the Tallinn train station; I don't think I've had a cheburek before, but it's the meat-stuffed-in-pastry thing that just can't really go wrong.
* [Pelmen](https://pelmen.ee/): Russian dumplings in a mall, also a good choice for breakfast.
* [Kompressor](https://kompressorpub.ee/en/): cheap, tasty, large (but not stupid large) shrimp pancake that is worth its reputation.
* [Maison François](https://www.instagram.com/maisonfrancoistallinn/?hl=en): waiting inside for sunset, correct French pastry in Estonia.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250626-may/food-tallinn" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">mid pizza; spectacular pork; shakshouka; cheburek; dumplings; shrimp pancake; palmier.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Volunteering

Nothing unusual this month. OAC Bolt Fund is almost ready to launch. 

# Conclusion

May was good! Not all months can be like May, but I do like having some months like that in the year.
