---
layout:     post

title:      "Trip report: Seven Summits Project, Mount Olympus, July 9 to 13, 2025"
date:       2025-08-23
author:     "Patrick Lam"
tags:       ["greece", "europe"]
categories: ["trip-reports", "travel"]
image:      "/img/20250823-olympus/07160_on_the_descent_v1.avif"
showtoc:    true
summary:    "Attempted some summits on Mount Olympus. Got the big two: Stefani and Mytikas. But not the whole set."

---

Three days on the mountain. Country highpoint, check. Easy technical climbing with good-enough weather.

<figure>
{{< gallery-slider dir="/img/20250825-july/olympus" >}}
<figcaption style="text-align:center">Olympus and some swallows; Litochoro church; flowers and Olympus; dog followed us; Nikos & Mario; approaching Apostolidis; face of Zeus; chamois; Skolio and friend; rocks and cliffs; chiaroscuro; looking at Skala; white and black horse; hiker silhouette; tree skeleton; washing feet back at Prionia.</figcaption>
</figure>

Day -2: flew to ATH from WLG through AKL, BNE, YVR, and YYZ, on two
back-to-back bookings (splitting at YVR). Stayed overnight at AKL at
an airbnb self-described as a "nice Vietnamese family"; and
chatted with the guy at the campfire before going to bed to catch my
6am flight to Australia.

Day -1: let's call this AKL-BNE-YVR-YYZ. No lounge access at AKL on
Qantas. Also annoyingly, Qantas charged me for baggage at AKL because
Jetstar from WLG doesn't interline.  BNE-YVR is kind of a day flight,
leaving late morning and arriving early morning, but it feels like
arriving mid-evening for the origin time zone.

Walked to Richmond, photographed rabbits, crows, and black-capped
chickadees, and ate curry fish balls (paying was annoying; at least
they took Interac eTransfers). I thought it would be a good idea to
eUpgrade YYZ-ATH and then YVR-YYZ is almost free (very few, or no,
extra eUpgrade credits).  Fortunately, that worked, so I managed to
get a bit of sleep on the overnight flight.

Day 0: Arrived in ATH (36°C), had a couple of hours with all my stuff,
then met up with Nikos and Mario. Nikos drove us to Litochoro, where
we stayed in a hotel for the night. Excellent restaurant (Greek, of
course) in the village. Views of Olympus.

Day 1: Bluebird skies. Drove on to Prionia, walked to Refuge Apostolidis
via Gomarostalos.  Forest until reaching the Muses plateau. Picked up dog in
Prionia, which followed us until we reached the cables up to the
plateau. Probably the dog followed the hiker going the other direction
back down. The dog also moved efficiently from shade to shade and
waited for us to catch up. No zigzagging. Saw herd of chamois on the
plateau. Got a good look at Stefani from the refuge. Looks like
Yamnuska in a way. Visited shrine on Profitas Ilias for sunset.

Day 2: Seven Summits Project attempt. Around the refuge, chamois and
alpine accentor.  Stefani summit by noon. Party of 9 Bulgarians near
the summit let us pass, fortunately.  One down, 6 to go. Through
Natsis Pass (roped, easy fifth class), though Mario banged his knee at
some point. Clouded over. Mytikas summit at 4, with an alpine accentor
singing to mark our summit.  Down and up to Skolio by 6:30. Cleared
up. Left Mario to find his own way back, ran over to Agios Antonios
(7:00) and back to the refuge, with horses and chamois along the way,
arriving just at sunset. There was another hiker with a full pack who
was moving pretty fast. We ran into him the next day doing more walking
for training purposes. Got pretty crowded in the refuge.

Day 3: Back to Prionia, though with a visit to Toupa in the morning
before leaving. Crossed a mule train going to the other refuge,
through the Lemos saddle, tagged the Skourta summit, took the
ridgeline (via Πετρόστρουγκα/Petrostourga) back to Prionia. Total
number of summits: 5. Washed our feet. I had a huge kebap plate. Back
to Athens with a flight back to Canada the next day.

