Hello SE Students,

Last year ECE created a new Wellness Coordinator position, which is 
enthusiastically filled by Renate Donnovan. She's lovely. She sends out 
weekly wellness tips to ECE students and faculty, which today I am 
forwarding to you. The big takeaway: you can train your brain for 
mental/emotional fitness. This is something that elite athletes have 
understood for decades. See the good links in her email below, and also 
her website (made with MME Wellness Coordinator Sam):

     https://uwaterloo.ca/engineering-wellness-program/

Best wishes,
Derek.


-------- Forwarded Message --------
Subject: 	[Faculty] Weekly wellness tip and humour of the day
Date: 	Mon, 6 Apr 2020 17:41:21 +0000
From: 	Renate Donnovan <renate.donnovan@uwaterloo.ca>
To: 	department@ecemail.uwaterloo.ca <department@ecemail.uwaterloo.ca>



Hello Spectacular ECE Faculty and Staff,

Now that the bulk of the urgency to move Winter term online is over, our 
current situation, which I sometimes refer to as the “cornapocalypse”, 
  is starting to shift towards an adaptive, new normal. At this phase in 
the process, it can be more challenging to stay positive. Last week, the 
resources I sent focused on overcoming the brain’s negativity bias. 
Today’s resources are an extension of that topic.  Below are some 
resources on “hardwiring the brain for happiness”. The brain is like 
Velcro for negative experiences, and Teflon for positive experiences. 
Negative experiences tend to stick, while positive experiences tend to 
slide right off. Did you know, it takes 3-5 positive experiences to 
counter one negative experience? Seriously! The negativity bias works in 
a similar way to a bank account. It takes 3-5 deposits into our 
emotional bank account (positive experiences) to cover one withdrawal 
(negative experience). Negativity is expensive, and it is easy to become 
overdrawn.

The brain’s neuroplasticity is activated in “Mental/Emotional Fitness 
Training”. Just like training for physical challenges, such as 
marathons, we can “train” for mental/emotional fitness. Warning! It does 
take time and effort—but it is a worthy undertaking! Enjoy the resources.

Kind regards,

Renate

*Today’s additional resources to support your mental health and wellness:*

·Embrace the Lawlessness of Quarantine Eating: Nothing else makes sense, 
so go ahead and eat three breakfasts 
<https://forge.medium.com/embrace-the-lawlessness-of-quarantine-eating-593d03590f0c> 
– Humourous article on how snacking triggers the reward centres in the 
brain.

·Neuroscience of Lasting Happiness <https://www.rickhanson.net/> – Rick 
Hanson, PhD, psychologist (Site contains a variety of resources)

·Neuroscience reveals 4 rituals that will make you happy 
<https://theweek.com/articles/601157/neuroscience-reveals-4-rituals-that-make-happy> 
– The Week article

·The Psychology and Neuroscience of Happiness 
<https://www.technologynetworks.com/neuroscience/videos/the-psychology-and-neuroscience-of-happiness-297066> 
– Vin Walsh, Professor of Human Brain Researcher - UCL

·The Neuroscience of Happiness 
<https://greatergood.berkeley.edu/article/item/the_neuroscience_of_happiness> 
– Interview in Greater Good Mag (Berkeley) with Rick Hanson PhD, 
(psychologist)

·The Neuroscience of Happiness and Pleasure 
<https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3008658/> – Kringelbach & 
Berridge, Soc Res (New York). 2010 SUMMER; 77(2): 659–678.

·Laughter Yoga <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4p4dZ0afivk> – Tedx 
Talks - YouTube

·ENGWellness Blog 
<https://uwaterloo.ca/engineering-wellness-program/blog>– Lots of great 
resources and tips

·I am here for wellness chats if you need to talk, 
Rdonnovan@uwaterloo.ca <mailto:Rdonnovan@uwaterloo.ca>

*Humour of the Day*

I invite you to create your own version of The Lockdown Boggie 
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G-ugfNXYcDg&fbclid=IwAR2kIawbsAig46H1aNfcml7yYvuIs6LQHyiDTh_M109MLblw8G-pB3FOB8Q>!

Baby’s laughing <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZAmZucyzyZM>  at dog 
antics (YouTube)

For the Cat lovers <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vt78i1RGovI>

Image may contain: possible text that says '"Social Distancing" is 
boring. "Exiled for the good of the realm" sounds much more interesting.'
